is one of the main facts of ethics, and I suspect they are right. 
But that is not exactly my point. My point is this: whether there 
is such fitness or not, we all assume that there is, and if we do, we 
express in moral judgments more than the subjectivists say we do. Let 
me illustrate.   In his novel <The House of the Dead>, Dostoevsky 
tells of his experiences in a Siberian prison camp. Whatever 
the unhappy inmates of such camps are like today, Dostoevsky's companions 
were about as grim a lot as can be imagined. "I have heard 
stories", he writes, "of the most terrible, the most unnatural actions, 
of the most monstrous murders, told with the most spontaneous, 
childishly merry laughter". Most of us would say that in this delight 
at the killing of others or the causing of suffering there is something 
very unfitting. If we were asked why we thought so, we should say 
that these things involve great evil and are wrong, and that to take 
delight in what is evil or wrong is plainly unfitting. Now on the subjectivist 
view, this answer is ruled out. For before someone takes 
up an attitude toward death, suffering, or their infliction, they have 
no moral quality at all. There is therefore nothing about them to which 
an attitude of approval or condemnation could be fitting. They are 
in themselves neutral, and, so far as they get a moral quality, they 
get it only through being invested with it by the attitude of the onlooker. 
But if that is true, why is any attitude more fitting than any 
other? Would applause, for example, be fitting if, apart from the 
applause, there were nothing good to applaud? Would condemnation be 
fitting if, independently of the condemnation, there were nothing bad 
to condemn? In such a case, any attitude would be as fitting or unfitting 
as any other, which means that the notion of fitness has lost 
all point.   Indeed we are forced to go much farther. If goodness 
and badness lie in attitudes only and hence are brought into being 
by them, those men who greeted death and misery with childishly merry 
laughter are taking the only sensible line. If there is nothing evil 
in these things, if they get their moral complexion only from our feeling 
about them, why shouldn't they be greeted with a cheer? To greet 
them with repulsion would turn what before was neutral into something 
bad; it would needlessly bring badness into the world; and even 
on subjectivist assumptions that does not seem very bright. On the 
other hand, to greet them with delight would convert what before was neutral 
into something good; it would bring goodness into the world.

The injured German veteran was a former miner, twenty-four years 
old, who had been wounded by shrapnel in the back of the head. This 
resulted in damage to the occipital lobe and very probably to the left 
side of the cerebellum also. In any event, the extraordinary result 
of this injury was that he became "psychically blind", while at 
the same time, apparently, the sense of touch remained essentially intact. 
Psychical blindness is a condition in which there is a total absence 
of visual memory-images, a condition in which, for example, one 
is unable to remember something just seen or to conjure up a memory-picture 
of the visible appearance of a well-known friend in his absence. 
This circumstance in the patient's case plus the fact that his tactual 
capacity remained basically in sound working order constitutes its 
exceptional value for the problem at hand since the evidence presented 
by the authors is overwhelming that, when the patient closed his eyes, 
he had absolutely no spatial (that is, third-dimensional) awareness 
whatsoever. The necessary inference, as the authors themselves interpret 
it, would seem to be this: "(1) Spatial qualities are not among 
those grasped by the sense of touch, <as such>. We do not arrive 
at spatial images by means of the sense of touch <by itself>. (2) 
Spatiality becomes part of the tactual sensation only by way of visual 
representations; that is, there is, in the true sense, only a <visual> 
space". The underlying assumption, of course, is that only 
sight and touch enable us, in any precise and fully dependable way, to 
locate objects in space beyond us, the other senses being decidedly inferior, 
if not totally inadequate, in this regard. This is an assumption 
with which few would be disposed to quarrel. Therefore, if the sense 
of touch is functioning normally and there is a complete absence 
of spatial awareness in a psychically-blind person when the eyes are closed 
and an object is handled, the conclusion seems unavoidable that 
touch by itself cannot focus and take possession of the third-dimensionality 
of things and that actual sight or visual representations are 
necessary.   The force of the authors' analysis (if indeed it 
has any force) can be felt by the reader, I believe, only after three 
questions have been successfully answered. (1) What allows us to think 
that the patient had no third-dimensional representations when his 
eyes were closed? (2) What evidence is there that he was psychically 
blind? (3) How can we be sure that his sense of touch was not profoundly 
disturbed by his head injury? We shall consider these in the 
inverse order of their presentation.   Obviously, a satisfactory 
answer to the third question is imperative, if the argument is to 
get under way at all, for if there is any possibility of doubt whether 
the patient's tactual sensitivity had been impaired by the occipital 
lesion, any findings whatsoever in regard to the first question become 
completely ambiguous and fail altogether, of course, as evidence to 
establish the desired conclusion. The answer the authors give to it, 
therefore, is of supreme importance. It is as follows: "The usual 
sensitivity tests showed that the specific qualities of skin-perceptiveness 
(pressure, pain, temperature), as well as the kinesthetic 
sensations 
(muscular feelings, feelings in the tendons and joints), were, 
as such, essentially intact, although they seemed, in comparison with 
normal reactions, to be somewhat diminished over the entire body. The 
supposed tactual sense of spatial location and orientation in the patient 
and his ability to specify the location of a member, as well as 
the direction and scope of a movement, passively executed (with one of 
his members), proved to have been, on the contrary, very considerably 
affected". The authors insist, however, that these abnormalities in 
the sense of touch were due absolutely to no organic disorders in that 
sense faculty but rather to the injuries which the patient had sustained 
to the sense of sight.   First of all, what is their evidence 
that the tactual apparatus was fundamentally undamaged? (1) When 
an object was placed in the patient's hand, he had no difficulty determining 
whether it was warm or cold, sharp or blunt, rough or smooth, 
flexible, soft, or hard; and he could tell, simply by the feel of 
it, whether it was made of wood, iron, cloth, rubber, and so on. And 
he could recognize, by touch alone, articles which he had handled immediately 
before, even though they were altogether unfamiliar to him and 
could not be identified by him; that is, he was unaware what kind 
of objects they were or what their use was. (2) The patient attained 
an astonishing efficiency in a new trade. Because of his brain injury 
and the extreme damage suffered to his sight, the patient had to train 
himself for a new line of work, that of a portfolio-maker, an occupation 
requiring a great deal of precision in the making of measurements 
and a fairly well-developed sense of form and contour. It seems clear, 
when one takes into consideration the exceedingly defective eyesight 
of the patient (we shall describe it in detail in connection with our 
second question, the one concerning the psychical blindness of the 
patient), that he had to rely on his sense of touch much more than the 
usual portfolio-maker and that consequently that faculty was most probably 
more sensitive to shape and size than that of a person with normal 
vision. And so the authors conclude: "The conduct of the patient 
in his every-day life and in his work, even more than the foregoing 
facts [mentioned above under 1], leave positively no room for doubt 
that the sense of touch, in the ordinary sense of the word, was unaffected; 
or, to put the same thing in physiological terms, that the performance-capacity 
of the tactual apparatus, from the periphery up to 
the tactual centers in the brain,- that is, from one end to the other- 
was unimpaired".   If the argument is accepted as essentially 
sound up to this point, it remains for us to consider whether the 
patient's difficulties in orienting himself spatially and in locating 
objects in space with the sense of touch can be explained by his defective 
visual condition. But before we can do this, we must first find 
answers to our original questions 1 and 2; then we shall perhaps 
be in a position to provide something like a complete answer to the question 
at hand.   In what ways, then, did the patient's psychical 
blindness manifest itself? He could not see objects as unified, 
self-contained, and organized figures, as a person does with normal 
vision. The meaning of this, as we shall see, is that he had no fund 
of visual memory-images of objects as objects; and, therefore, he could 
not recognize even long-familiar things upon seeing them again. Instead, 
he constantly became lost in parts and components of them, confused 
some of their details with those of neighboring objects, and so 
on, unless he allowed time to "trace" the object in question through 
minute movements of the head and hands and in this way to discover 
its contours. According to his own testimony, he never actually saw things 
as shaped but only as generally amorphous "blots" of color of 
a more or less indefinite size; at their edges they slipped pretty 
much out of focus altogether. But by the tracing procedure, he could, 
in a strange obviously kinesthetic manner, find the unseen form; could 
piece, as it were, the jumbled mass together into an organized whole 
and then recognize it as a man or a triangle or whatever it turned 
out to be. If, however, the figure to be discerned were complicated, 
composed of several interlocking subfigures, and so on, even the tracing 
process failed him, and he could not focus even relatively simple 
shapes among its parts. This meant, concretely, that the patient could 
not read at all without making writing-like movements of the head or 
body, became easily confused by "hasher marks" inserted between hand-written 
words and thus confused the mark for one of the letters, and 
could recognize a simple straight line or a curved one only by tracing 
it.   The patient himself denied that he had any visual imagery 
at all; and there was ample evidence of the following sort to corroborate 
him. After a conversation with another man, he was able to 
recount practically everything that had been said but could not describe 
at all what the other man looked like. Nor could he call up memory-pictures 
of close friends or relatives. In short, both his own declarations 
and his figural blindness, when he looked at objects, seem to 
present undeniable evidence that he had simply no visual memory at all. 
He was oblivious of the form of the object actually being viewed, precisely 
because he could not assign it to a visual shape, already learned 
and held in visual memory, as persons of normal vision do. He could 
not recognize it; he was absolutely unfamiliar with it because he 
had no visual memory at all. Therefore, his only recourse was to learn 
the shape all over again for each new visual experience of the same 
individual object or type of object; and this he could do only by 
going over its mass with the tracing procedure. Then he might finally 
recognize it, apparently by combining the visual blot, actually being 
seen, with tactual feelings in the head or body accompanying the tracing 
movements. This would mean, it can readily be seen, that, again, 
for each new visual experience the tracing motions would have to be repeated 
because of the absence of visual imagery.   As one would 
surmise, the procedure, however, could be repeated with the same object 
or with the same type of object often enough, so that the corresponding 
visual blots and the merest beginning of the tracing movement would 
provide clues as to the actual shape, which the patient then immediately 
could determine by a kind of inference. Men, trees, automobiles, 
houses, and so on- objects continually confronted in everyday life- 
had each its characteristic blot-appearance and became easily recognizable, 
at the very beginning of tracing, by an inference as to what 
each was. Dice, for example, he inferred from black dots on a white surface. 
He evidently could not actually see the corners of these objects, 
but their size and the dots gave them away. And the authors give 
numerous instances of calculated guessing on the patient's part to 
show how large a role it played in his process of readapting himself 
and how proficient he became at it. Often he seems even to have been 
able to guess correctly, without the tracing motions, solely on the basis 
of qualitative differences among the blot-like things which appeared 
in his visual experience.   Perhaps the very important question- 
What is, then, exactly the role of kinesthetic sensations in the 
patient's ability to recognize forms and shapes by means of the tracing 
movements when he is actually looking at things?- has now been 
raised in the reader's mind and in the following form. If the patient 
can perceive figure kinesthetically when he cannot perceive it visually, 
then, it would seem, the sense of touch has immediate contact 
with the spatial aspects of things in independence of visual representations, 
at least in regard to two dimensions, and, as we shall see, even 
this much spatial awareness on the part of unaided touch is denied 
by the authors. How, then, do the kinesthetic sensations function in 
all this? The authors set about answering this fundamental question 
through a detailed investigation of the patient's ability, tactually, 
(1) to perceive figure and (2) to locate objects in space, with his 
eyes closed (or turned away from the object concerned). Quite naturally, 
they make the investigation, first, by prohibiting the patient from 
making any movements at all and then, later, by repeating it and allowing 
the patient to move in any way he wanted to.   When the 
patient was not allowed to move his body in any way at all, the following 
striking results occurred. 
Whenever artists, indeed, turned to actual representations or molded 
three-dimensional figures, which were rare down to 800 B&C&, they 
tended to reflect reality (see Plate 6~a, 9~b); a schematic, 
abstract treatment of men and animals, <by intent,> rose only in the 
late eighth century.   To speak of this underlying view of the 
world is to embark upon matters of subjective judgment. At the least, 
however, one may conclude that Geometric potters sensed a logical order; 
their principles of composition stand very close to those which 
appear in the Homeric epics and the hexameter line. Their world, again, 
was a still simple, traditional age which was only slowly beginning 
to appreciate the complexity of life. And perhaps an observer of the 
vases will not go too far in deducing that the outlook of their makers 
and users was basically stable and secure. The storms of the past 
had died away, and the great upheaval which was to mark the following 
century had not yet begun to disturb men's minds.   Throughout 
the work of the later ninth century a calm, severe serenity displays 
itself. In the vases this spirit may perhaps at times bore or repel 
one in its internal self-satisfaction, but the best of the Geometric 
pins have rightly been considered among the most beautiful ever made 
in the Greek world. The ninth century was in its artistic work "the 
spiritually freest and most self-sufficient between past and future", 
and the loving skill spent by its artists upon their products is a 
testimonial to their sense that what they were doing was important and 
was appreciated. _THE AEGEAN IN 800 B&C&_ GEOMETRIC POTTERY 
has not yet received the thorough, detailed study which it 
deserves, 
partly because the task is a mammoth one and partly because some 
of its local manifestations, as at Argos, are only now coming to light. 
From even a cursory inspection of its many aspects, however, the 
historian can deduce several fundamental conclusions about the progress 
of the Aegean world down to 800 B&C&   The general intellectual 
outlook which had appeared in the eleventh century was now consolidated 
to a significant degree. Much which was in embryo in 1000 
had become reasonably well developed by 800. In this process the Minoan-Mycenaean 
inheritance had been transmuted or finally rejected; 
the Aegean world which had existed before 1000 differed from that 
which 
rises more clearly in our vision after 800. Those modern scholars 
who urge that we must keep in mind the fundamental continuity of Aegean 
development from earliest times- granted occasional irruptions of 
peoples and ideas from outside- are correct; but all too many observers 
have been misled by this fact into minimizing the degree of change 
which took place in the early first millennium.   The focus 
of novelty in this world now lay in the south-eastern districts of 
the 
Greek mainland, and by 800 virtually the entire Aegean, always excepting 
its northern shores, had accepted the Geometric style of pottery. 
While Protogeometric vases usually turn up, especially outside Greece 
proper, together with as many or more examples of local stamp, these 
"non-Greek" 
patterns had mostly vanished by the later ninth century. 
In their place came local variations <within> the common style- 
tentative, as it were, in Protogeometric products but truly distinct 
and sharply defined as the Geometric spirit developed. Attica, 
though important, was not the only teacher of this age. One can take 
a vase of about 800 B&C& and, without any knowledge of its place 
of origin, venture to assign it to a specific area; imitation and borrowing 
of motifs now become ascertainable. The potters of the Aegean 
islands thus stood apart from those of the mainland, and in Greece 
itself Argive, Corinthian, Attic, Boeotian, and other Geometric 
sequences have each their own hallmarks. These local variations were 
to become ever sharper in the next century and a half.   The same 
conclusions can be drawn from the other physical evidence of the Dark 
ages, from linguistic distribution, and from the survivals of early 
social, political, and religious patterns into later ages. By 800 B&C& 
the Aegean was an area of common tongue and of common culture. 
On these pillars rested that solid basis for life and thought which 
was soon to be manifested in the remarkably unlimited ken of the <Iliad>. 
Everywhere within the common pattern, however, one finds local 
diversity; Greek history and culture were enduringly fertilized, 
and plagued, by the interplay of these conjoined yet opposed factors.

Further we cannot go, for the Dark ages deserve their 
name. Many aspects of civilization were not yet sufficiently crystallized 
to find expression, nor could the simple economic and social foundations 
of this world support a lofty structure. The epic poems, the 
consolidation of the Greek pantheon, the rise of firm political units, 
the self-awareness which could permit painted and sculptured representations 
of men- all these had to await the progress of following decades. 
What we have seen in this chapter, we have seen only dimly, and 
yet the results, however general, are worth the search. These are 
the centuries in which the inhabitants of the Aegean world settled firmly 
into their minds and into their institutions the foundations of the 
Hellenic outlook, independent of outside forces.   To interpret, 
indeed, the era from 1000 to 800 as a period mainly of consolidation 
may be a necessary but unfortunate defect born of our lack of detailed 
information; if we could see more deeply, we probably would find 
many side issues and wrong turnings which came to an end within the 
period. The historian can only point out those lines which were major 
enough to find reflection in our limited evidence, and must hope that 
future excavations will enrich our understanding. Throughout the Dark 
ages, it is clear, the Greek world had been developing slowly but 
consistently. The pace could now be accelerated, for the inhabitants 
of the Aegean stood on firm ground. 

#CHAPTER 5 THE EARLY EIGHTH CENTURY# 

THE LANDSCAPE of Greek history broadens widely, and 
rather abruptly, in the eighth century B&C&, the age of Homer's 
"rosy-fingered Dawn". The first slanting rays of the new day 
cannot yet dispel all the dark shadows which lie across the Aegean world; 
but our evidence grows considerably in variety and shows more 
unmistakably some of the lines of change. For this period, as for earlier 
centuries, pottery remains the most secure source; the ceramic 
material of the age is more abundant, more diversified, and more indicative 
of the hopes and fears of its makers, who begin to show scenes of 
human life and death. Figurines and simple chapels presage the emergence 
of sculpture and architecture in Greece; objects in gold, 
ivory, 
and bronze grow more numerous. Since writing was practiced in the 
Aegean before the end of the century, we may hope that the details of 
tradition will now be occasionally useful. Though it is not easy to 
apply the evidence of the <Iliad> to any specific era, this marvelous 
product of the epic tradition had certainly taken definitive shape 
by 750.   The Dipylon Geometric pottery of Athens and the <Iliad> 
are amazing manifestations of the inherent potentialities of Greek 
civilization; but both were among the last products of a phase 
which was ending. Greek civilization was swirling toward its great revolution, 
in which the developed qualities of the Hellenic outlook were 
suddenly to break forth. The revolution was well under way before 
700 B&C&, and premonitory signs go back virtually across the century. 
The era, however, is Janus-faced. While many tokens point forward, 
the main achievements stand as a culmination of the simple patterns 
of the Dark ages. The dominant pottery of the century was Geometric; 
political organization revolved about the <basileis>; 
trade 
was just beginning to expand; the gods who protected the Greek countryside 
were only now putting on their sharply anthropomorphic dress.

The modern student, who knows what was to come next, is likely 
to place first the factors of change which are visible in the eighth 
century. Not all men of the period would have accepted this emphasis. 
Many potters clung to the past the more determinedly as they were confronted 
with radically new ideas; the poet of the <Iliad> deliberately 
archaized. Although it is not possible to sunder old and new 
in this era, I shall consider in the present chapter primarily the 
first 
decades of the eighth century and shall interpret them as an apogee 
of the first stage of Greek civilization.   On this principle 
of division I must postpone the evolution of sculpture, architecture, 
society, and politics; for the developments in these areas make sense 
only if they are connected to the age of revolution itself. The growing 
contacts between Aegean and Orient are also a phase which should 
be linked primarily to the remarkable broadening of Hellenic culture 
after 750. We shall not be able entirely to pass over these connections 
to the East as we consider Ripe Geometric pottery, the epic 
and the myth, and the religious evolution of early Greece; the important 
point, however, is that these magnificent achievements, unlike those 
of later decades, were only incidentally influenced by Oriental 
models. The antecedents of Dipylon vases and of the <Iliad> lie in 
the Aegean past. _DIPYLON POTTERY_ THE POTTERY of the first 
half of the eighth century is commonly called Ripe Geometric. The 
severe yet harmonious vases of the previous fifty years, the Strong 
Geometric style of the late ninth century, display as firm a mastery 
of the principles underlying Geometric pottery; but artists now were 
ready to refine and elaborate their inheritance. The vases which resulted 
had different shapes, far more complex decoration, and a larger 
sense of style.   Beyond the aesthetic and technical aspects of 
this expansion we must consider the change in pottery style on broader 
lines. In earlier centuries men had had enough to do in rebuilding 
a fundamental sense of order after chaos. They had had to work on very 
simple foundations and had not dared to give rein to impulses. The 
potters, in particular, had virtually eschewed freehand drawing, elaborate 
motifs, and the curving lines of nature, while yet expressing a 
belief that there was order in the universe. In their vases were embodied 
the basic aesthetic and logical characteristics of Greek civilization, 
at first hesitantly in Protogeometric work, and then more confidently 
in the initial stages of the Geometric style. By 800 social 
and cultural security had been achieved, at least on a simple plane; 
it was time to take bigger steps, to venture on experiments.   Ripe 
Geometric potters continued to employ the old syntax of ornaments 
and shapes and made use of the well-defined though limited range of 
motifs which they had inherited. In these respects the vases of the early 
eighth century represent a culmination of earlier lines of progress. 
To the ancestral lore, however, new materials were added. Painters 
left less and less of a vase in a plain dark color; instead they 
divided the surface into many bands or covered it by all-over patterns 
into which freehand drawing began to creep. Wavy lines, feather-like 
patterns, rosettes of indefinitely floral nature, birds either singly 
or in stylized rows, animals in solemn frieze bands (see Plates 11-12)- 
all these turned up in the more developed fabrics as preliminary 
signs that the potters were broadening their gaze. The rows of animals 
and birds, in particular, suggest awareness of Oriental animal friezes, 
transmitted perhaps via Syrian silver bowls and textiles, but the 
specific forms of these rows on local vases and metal products are 
nonetheless Greek. Though the spread of this type of decoration in the 
Aegean has not yet been precisely determined, it seems to appear first 
in the Cyclades, which were among the leading exporters of pottery 
throughout the century.   As the material at the command of the 
potters grew and the volume of their production increased, the local 
variations within a common style became more evident. Plate 12 illustrates 
four examples, which are Ripe or Late Geometric work of common 
spirit but of different schools. 
Cook had discovered a beef in his possession a few days earlier and, 
when he could not show the hide, arrested him. Thinking the evidence 
insufficient to get a conviction, he later released him. Even while suffering 
the trip to his home, Cook swore to Moore and Lane that he 
would kill the Indian.   Three weeks later following his recovery, 
armed with a writ issued by the Catskill justice on affidavits prepared 
by the district attorney, Cook and Russell rode to arrest Martinez. 
Arriving at daybreak, they found Julio in his corral and demanded 
that he surrender. Instead, he whirled and ran to his house for 
a gun forcing them to kill him, Cook reported.   Both Cook's 
and Russell's lives were threatened by the Mexicans following the 
killing, but the company officers felt that in the end, it would serve 
to quiet them despite their immediate emotion. General manager Pels 
even suggested that it might be wise to keep the Mexicans in suspense 
rather than accept their offers to sell out and move away, and try 
to have a few punished.   On February 17, Russell and Cook 
were sent to the Pena Flor community on the Vermejo to see about renting 
out ranches the company had purchased. While talking with Julian 
M& Beall, Francisco Archuleta and Juan Marcus appeared, both 
heavily armed, and after watching the house for a while, rode away. 
It was nearly sundown before they finished the business with Beall and 
began riding down the stream. They had traveled only a short distance 
when they spotted five Mexicans riding along a horse-trail across 
the stream just ahead of them. Suspecting an ambush, the two deputies 
decided to ride up a side canyon taking a short cut into Catskill.

After spending two nights (Wednesday and Thursday) in Catskill, 
the deputies again headed for the Vermejo to finish their business. 
They stayed with a rancher Friday night and by eleven o'clock 
Saturday morning passed the old Garnett Lee ranch. Half a mile below 
at the mouth of Salyer's Canyon was an old ranch that the company 
had purchased from A& J& Armstrong, occupied by a Mexican, 
his wife, and an old trapper. There were three houses in Salyer's 
Canyon just at the foot of a low bluff, the road winding along the top, 
entering above, and then passing down in front of the houses, thence 
to the Vermejo. To the west of this road was another low bluff, forty 
or fifty feet high, covered with scrub oak and other brush. As they 
were riding along this winding road on the bench of land between the 
two bluffs, a volley of rifle fire suddenly crashed around the two officers. 
Not a bullet touched Cook who was nearer the ambush, but one 
hit Russell in the leg and another broke his arm, passing on through 
his body.   With the first reports, Russell's horse wheeled 
to the right and ran towards the buildings while Cook, followed by a 
hail of bullets, raced towards the arroyo of Salyer's Canyon immediately 
in front of him, just reaching it as his horse fell. Grabbing 
his Winchester from its sheath, Cook prepared to fight from behind 
the arroyo bank. Bullets were so thick, throwing sand in his face, that 
he found it difficult to return the fire. Noticing Russell's horse 
in front of the long log building, he assumed his friend had slipped 
inside and would be able to put up a good fight, so he began working 
his way down the ditch to join him. At a very shallow place, two Mexicans 
rushed into the open for a shot. Dropping to one knee, Cook 
felled one, and the other struggled off with his comrade, sending no further 
fire in his direction. Just before leaving the arroyo where he 
was partially concealed, he did hear shots down at the house. 
Russell had reached the house as Cook surmised, dismounted, but just 
as the old trapper opened the door to receive him, he fell into the trapper's 
arms- dead. A bullet fired by one of the Mexicans hiding 
in a little chicken house had passed through his head, tearing a hole 
two-inches square on the outgoing side. Finding him dead, Cook caught 
Russell's horse and rode to the cattle foreman's house to report 
the incident and request bloodhounds to trail the assassins.

Before daylight Sunday morning, a posse of twenty-three men under 
the leadership of Deputy Sheriff Frank MacPherson of Catskill followed 
the trail to the house of Francisco Chaves, where 100 to 150 
Mexicans had gathered. MacPherson boldly approached the fortified 
adobe house and demanded entrance. The men inside informed him that they 
had some wounded men among them but he would not be allowed to see 
them even though he offered medical aid. The officer demanded the names 
of the injured men; the Mexicans not only refused to give them, 
but told the possemen if they wanted a fight they could have it. Since 
the strength of the Mexicans had been underrated, too small a posse 
had been collected, and since the deputy had not been provided with 
search warrants, MacPherson and his men decided it was much wiser to 
withdraw.   The posse's retreat encouraged the Mexicans to 
be overbearing and impudent. During the following week, six tons of hay 
belonging to one rancher were burned; some buildings, farm tools, 
two horses, plows, and hay owned by Bonito Lavato, a friendly interpreter 
for the company, and Pedro Chavez' hay were stolen or destroyed; 
and a store was broken into and robbed. District Attorney M& 
W& Mills warned that he would vigorously prosecute persons caught 
committing these crimes or carrying arms- he just didn't catch 
anyone.   Increasing threats on his life finally convinced Cook 
that he should leave New Mexico. His friends advised that it would 
be only a question of time until either the Mexicans killed him by 
ambuscade or he would be compelled to kill them in self-defense, perpetuating 
the troubles. By early summer, he wrote from Laramie that he 
was suffering from the wound inflicted in the ambush and was in a bad 
way financially, so Pels sent him a draft for $100, warning that it 
was still not wise for him to return. Pels also sent a check for $100 
to Russell's widow and had a white marble monument erected on his 
grave.   Cattle stealing and killing, again serious during the 
spring of 1891, placed the land grant company officers in a perplexing 
position. They were reluctant to appoint sheriffs to protect the property, 
thus running the risk of creating disturbances such as that on 
the Vermejo, and yet the cowboys protested that they got no salary 
for arresting cattle thieves and running the risk of being shot. And 
the law virtually ignored the situation. The judge became ill just as 
the Colfax District Court convened, no substitute was brought in, 
no criminal cases heard, only 5 out of 122 cases docketed were tried, 
and court adjourned sine die after sitting a few days instead of the usual 
three weeks. Pels complained: "Litigants and witnesses were 
put to the expense and inconvenience of going long distances to transact 
business; public money spent; justice delayed; nothing accomplished, 
and the whole distribution of justice in this county seems to 
be an absolute farce".   Word reached the company that the man 
behind these depredations was Manuel Gonzales, a man with many followers, 
including a number who were kept in line through fear of him. 
Although wanted by the sheriff for killing an old man named Asher Jones, 
the warrant for his arrest had never been served. On May 19, a 
deputy sheriff's posse of eight men left Maxwell City and rode thirty-five 
miles up the Vermejo where they were joined by Juan Jose 
Martinez. By 3:00 A&M& they reached his house and found it vacant. 
When they were refused entrance to his brother's house nearby, 
they smashed down the door, broke the window, and threw lighted clothes 
wet with kerosene into the room. Still there was no Gonzales and 
the family would say nothing.   About 300 yards up the creek was 
a cluster of Mexican houses containing six rooms in the form of a 
square. While prowling around these buildings, two of the posse recognized 
the voice of Gonzales speaking to the people inside. He was promised 
that no harm would befall him if he would come out, but he cursed 
and replied that he would shoot any man coming near the door. The 
posse then asked that he send out the women and children as the building 
would be fired or torn down over his head if necessary to take him 
dead or alive. Again he refused. In deadly earnest, the besiegers methodically 
stripped away portions of the roof and tossed lighted rags 
inside, only to have most stamped out by the women as soon as they hit 
the floor. When it became obvious that he could stay inside no longer, 
taking a thousand to one chance Gonzales rushed outside, square against 
the muzzle of a Winchester. Shot near the heart, he turned to 
one side and plunged for a door to another room several feet away, three 
bullets following him. As he pushed open the door he fell on his 
face, one of his comrades pulling him inside.   Not realizing the 
seriousness of the wound, the besiegers warned that if he did not surrender 
the house would be burned down around him. Receiving no answer, 
they set the fire. When the house was about half consumed, his comrade 
ran to the door and threw up his hands, declaring repeatedly that 
he did not know the whereabouts of Manuel. Finding it true that he 
was not inside, the deputies returned to the first house and tore holes 
through the side and the roof until they could see a body on the bed 
covered by a blanket. Several slugs fired into the bed jerked aside 
the blanket to reveal an apparently lifeless hand. Shot six or eight 
times the body was draped with Russell's pistol, belt, and cartridges. 
There was no extra horse so it was left to his comrades who, though 
numbering in the fifties, had stood around on the hillside nearby 
without firing a shot during the entire attack.   Early the next 
morning, a Mexican telephoned Pels that Celso Chavez, one of the 
posse members, was surrounded by ten Mexicans at his father's home 
on the upper Vermejo. The sheriff and District Attorney Mills 
hastily swore 
out a number of warrants against men who had been riding about armed, 
according to signed statements by Chavez and Dr& I& P& George, 
and ordered Deputy Barney Clark of Raton to rescue the posseman. 
Traveling all night, Clark and twelve men arrived at about seven 
o'clock May 22. Occasionally they heard gun-shot signals and a 
number of horsemen were sighted on the hills, disappearing at the posse's 
approach. A Mexican justice of the peace had issue a writ against 
Chavez for taking part in the "murder" of Manuel Gonzales 
so he and his father were anxious to be taken out of danger. The men 
helped them gather their belongings and escorted them to Raton along 
with three other families desiring to leave.   The ten or more 
dangerous parties singled out for prosecution were still at large, and 
Pels realized that if these men entrenched themselves in their adobe 
houses, defending themselves through loopholes, it would be most difficult 
to capture them. Thus he wired J& P& Lower and Sons of 
Denver: "Have you any percussion hand grenades for throwing in a 
house or across a well loaded with balls or shrapnel shot? If not, 
how long to order and what is the price"? He wisely decided that 
it would be foolish to create a disturbance during the coming roundup, 
particularly since the Mexicans were on their guard. His problem 
then became one of restraining the American fighters who wanted to clean 
out the Vermejo by force immediately. 
The plant was located west of the Battenkill and south of the location 
of the former electric light plant.   The Manchester Depot 
Sewer Company issued 214 shares of stock at $10 each for construction 
of a sewer in that locality, and assessments were made for its maintenance. 
It has given considerable trouble at times and empties right 
into the Battenkill. Fire District No& 1 discussed its possible 
purchase in 1945, but considered it an unwise investment.   The 
sewer on Bonnet Street was constructed when there were only a few houses 
on the street. as new homes were built they were connected so that 
all residences south of School Street are served by it. B& J& 
Connell is the present treasurer and manager.   The 1946 town 
meeting voted to have the Selectmen appoint a committee to investigate 
and report on the feasibility of some system of sewage disposal and 
a disposal plant to serve Manchester Center, Depot, and Way's 
Lane. The committee submitted a report signed by Louis Martin and 
Leon Wiley with a map published in the 1946 town report. The layout 
of the sewer lines was designed by Henry W& Taylor, who was the 
engineer for the Manchester Village disposal plant. No figures were 
submitted with the report and no action was taken on it by the town.

The 1958 town meeting directed town authorities to seek federal 
and state funds with which to conduct a preliminary survey of a proposed 
sewage plant with its attendant facilities. The final step was a 
vote 
for a $230,000 bond issue for the construction of a sewage system by 
the 1959 town meeting, later confirmed by a two-thirds vote at a special 
town meeting June 21, 1960.   There the matter stands with 
the prospect that soon Manchester may be removed from the roster of 
towns contributing raw sewage to its main streams. #@ TELEPHONE AND 
TELEGRAPH#

MANCHESTER'S unusual interest in telegraphy has 
often been attributed to the fact that the Rev& J& D& Wickham, 
headmaster of Burr and Burton Seminary, was a personal friend and 
correspondent of the inventor, Samuel F& B& Morse. At any 
rate, Manchester did not lag far behind the first commercial system 
which was set up in 1844 between Baltimore and Washington.   In 
1846 Matthew B& Goodwin, jeweler and watchmaker, became the town's 
first telegrapher in a dwelling he built for himself and his business 
"two doors north of the Equinox House" or "one door north 
of the Bank, Manchester, Vermont". Goodwin was telegrapher for 
the "American Telegraph Company" and the "Troy and Canada 
Junction Telegraph Company". Shares of capital stock at $15 each 
in the latter company were payable at the Bank of Manchester or at 
various other Vermont banks. A message of less than fifteen words to 
Bennington cost twenty-five cents.   By 1871 L& C& Orvis, 
manager of the "Western Union Telegraph Company", expressed 
willingness to send emergency telegrams on Sundays from his Village 
drugstore. Orvis even needed to hire an assistant, Clark J& Wait. 
The <Manchester Journal> commented editorially on the surprising 
amount of local telegraphic business.   In the fall of 1878, 
the "Popular Telegraph Line" was established between Manchester 
and Factory Point by the owners, Paul W& Orvis, Henry Gray, 
J& N& Hard, and Clark J& Wait. The line soon lived up 
to its name, as local messages of moderate length could be sent for a 
dime and the company was quickly able to declare very liberal dividends 
on its capital stock.   In 1879 the same Clark Wait, with H& 
H& Holley of South Dorset, formed the "American Telegraph 
Line", extending from Manchester Depot via Factory Point and 
South Dorset to Dorset. Besides being most convenient, the line "soon 
proved a good investment for the owners". Telegraphers at the 
Depot at this time were Aaron C& Burr and Mark Manley of "Burr 
and Manley", dealers in lumber and dry goods.   Early equipment 
was very flimsy; the smallest gusts of wind toppled poles, 
making communications impossible. But companies continued to spring 
up. By 1883 the "Battenkill Telegraph Company" was in existence 
and Alvin Pettibone was its president. Operating in 1887 was the 
"Valley Telegraph Line", officers of which were E& C& Orvis, 
president; H& K& Fowler, vice-president and secretary; 
J& N& Hard, treasurer; F& H& Walker, superintendent; 
H& S& Walker, assistant superintendent. Two companies now had 
headquarters with Clark J& Wait, who by then had his own drugstore 
at Factory Point- the "Northern Union Telegraph Company" 
and the "Western Union". Operators were Arthur Koop and 
Norman 
Taylor. Still existing on a "Northern Union" telegraph form 
is a typical peremptory message from Peru grocer J& J& Hapgood 
to Burton and Graves' store in Manchester- "Get and send 
by stage sure four pounds best Porterhouse or serloin stake, for Mrs& 
Hapgood send six sweet oranges".   About 1888 J& E& 
McNaughton of Barnumville and E& G& Bacon became proprietors 
of the "Green Mountain Telegraph Company", connecting all offices 
on the Western Union line and extending over the mountain from 
Barnumville to Peru, Londonderry, South Londonderry, Lowell Lake, 
Windham, North Windham, Grafton, Cambridgeport, Saxton's 
River, and Bellows Falls.   From 1896 until 1910 John H& 
Whipple was manager of Western Union at the Center in the drugstore 
he purchased from Clark Wait. The Village office of Western Union 
with George Towsley as manager and telegrapher continued in Hard's 
drugstore until 1905. During the summers, Towsley often needed 
the assistance of a company operator.   These were the years when 
people flocked to Manchester not only to play golf, which had come 
into vogue, but also to witness the Ekwanok Country Club tournaments. 
New Yorkers were kept informed of scores by reporters who telegraphed 
fifteen to twenty thousand words daily to the metropolitan newspapers. 
This boosted local telegraph business and Manchester basked in 
all the free advertising. In 1914 when the town was chosen for the 
U& S& Amateur Golf tournament, a representative hurried here from 
the Boston manager's office. In his wake came the District Traffic 
Supervisor and the cream of the telegraphic profession, ten of 
Boston's best, chosen for their long experience and thorough knowledge 
of golf. During that tournament alone, some 250,000 words winged 
their way out of Manchester.   The old Morse system was replaced 
locally by the Simplex modern automatic method in 1929, when Ellamae 
Heckman (Wilcox) was manager of the Western Union office. During 
summers, business was so brisk that Mrs& Wilcox had two assistants 
and a messenger. She was succeeded by Clarence Goyette. Since 
that time the telegraph office has shifted in location from the railroad 
station at the Depot and shops at the Center back to the town clerk's 
office and drugstore at the Village. After being located for 
some years in the Village at the Equinox Pharmacy under the supervision 
of Mrs& Harry Mercier, it is presently located in the Hill 
and Dale Shop, Manchester Center.   The first known telephone 
line in Manchester was established in July 1883 between Burr and 
Manley's store at Manchester Depot and the Kent and Root Marble 
Company in South Dorset. This was extended the following year 
to include the railroad station agent's office and Thayer's Hotel 
at Factory Point. In November 1887 a line connecting several dwelling 
houses in Dorset was extended to Manchester Depot. Telephone 
wires from Louis Dufresne's house in East Manchester to the Dufresne 
lumber job near Bourn Pond were up about 1895. Eber L& Taylor 
of Manchester Depot recorded the setting of phone poles in East 
Dorset and Barnumville in his diary for 1906. These must have been 
for local calls strictly, as in May 1900 the "only long distance 
telephone" in town was transferred from C& B& Carleton's to 
Young's shoe store.   A small single switchboard was installed 
in the Village over Woodcock's hardware store (later E& H& 
Hemenway's). George Woodcock was manager and troubleshooter; 
Elizabeth Way was the first operator; and a night operator was also 
employed. Anyone fortunate enough to have one of those early phones 
advertised the fact along with the telephone number in the <Manchester 
Journal>.   In 1918 the New England Telephone Company 
began erecting a building to house its operations on the corner of U& 
S& Rte& 7 and what is now Memorial Avenue at Manchester Center. 
Service running through Barnumville and to Bennington County 
towns east of the mountains was in the hands of the "Gleason Telephone 
Company" in 1925, but major supervision of telephone lines 
in Manchester was with the New England Telephone and Telegraph Company, 
which eventually gained all control. More aerial and underground 
equipment was installed as well as office improvements to take care 
of the expanding business.   In 1931 Mrs& F& H& Briggs, 
agent and chief operator, who was to retire in 1946 with thirty years' 
service, led agency offices in sales for the year with $2,490. 
William Hitchcock, who retired in 1938, was a veteran of thirty-four 
years' local service. Another veteran telephone operator was Edith 
Fleming Blackmer, who had been in the office forty years at the time 
of her death in 1960.   In 1932 Dorset received its own exchange, 
which made business easier for the Manchester office, but it was 
not until February 1953 that area service was extended to include Manchester 
and Dorset. This eliminated toll calls between the two towns. 
Within a month, calls were up seventy per cent. #@ ELECTRIC 
POWER#

ELECTRICITY plays such an important part in community life 
today that it is difficult to envision a time when current was not 
available for daily use. Yet one has to go back only some sixty years.

The first mention of an electric plant in Manchester seems 
to be one installed in Reuben Colvin's and Houghton's gristmill 
on the West Branch in Factory Point. No records are available as 
to the date or extent of installation, but it may have been in 1896.

On June 14, 1900 the <Manchester Journal> reported that 
an electrical engineer was installing an electric light plant for Edward 
S& Isham at "Ormsby Hill". This was working by the end 
of August and giving satisfactory service.   In November 1900 
surveying was done under John Marsden on the east mountains to ascertain 
if it would be possible to get sufficient water and fall to operate 
an electric power plant. Nothing came of it, perhaps due to lack of 
opportunity for water storage.   The next step was construction 
by the Manchester Light and Power Company of a plant on the west 
bank of the Battenkill south of Union Street bridge. This was nearly 
completed May 23, 1901 with a promise of lights by June 10, but 
the first light did not go on until September 28. It was at the end 
of the sidewalk in front of the Dellwood Cemetery cottage.   The 
first directors of the Manchester Light and Power Company were 
John Marsden, M& L& Manley, William F& Orvis, George Smith, 
and John Blackmer. The officers were John Marsden, president; 
John C& Blackmer, vice-president; George Smith, treasurer; 
and William F& Orvis, secretary. Marsden was manager of the 
company for ten years and manager of its successor company, the Colonial 
Light and Power Company, for one year.   At about the time 
the Marsden enterprise was getting under way, the Vail Light and 
Lumber Company started construction of a chair stock factory on the 
site of the present Bennington Co-operative Creamery, intending to 
use its surplus power for generating electricity. Manchester then had 
two competing power companies until 1904, when the Manchester Light 
and Power Company purchased the transmission system of the Vail 
Company. This was fortunate, as the Vail plant burned in 1905.

The Colonial Light and Power Company was succeeded by the Vermont 
Hydro-Electric Corporation, which in turn was absorbed by the 
Central Vermont Public Service Corporation. The latter now furnishes 
the area with electricity distributed from a modern sub-station at 
Manchester Depot which was put into operation February 19, 1930 and 
was improved in January 1942 by the installation of larger transformers.

For a time following the abandonment of the local plant, 
electric current for Manchester was brought in from the south with 
an emergency tie-in with the Vermont Marble Company system to the north. 
Some who have written on <Utopia> have treated it as "a learned 
diversion of a learned world", "a phantasy with which More amused 
himself", "a holiday work, a spontaneous overflow of intellectual 
high spirits, a revel of debate, paradox, comedy and invention". With 
respect to this view, two points are worth making. First, it appears 
to be based on the fact that on its title page <Utopia> is described 
as "festivus", "gay". It overlooks the other fact that 
it is described as "<Nec minus salutaris quam festivus>", "no 
less salutary than gay". It also overlooks the fact that in a rational 
lexicon, and quite clearly in More's lexicon, the opposite of 
serious is not gay but frivolous, and the opposite of gay is not serious 
but solemn. More believed that a man could be both serious and gay. 
That a writer who is gay cannot be serious is a common professional 
illusion, sedulously fostered by all too many academics who mistakenly 
believe that their frivolous efforts should be taken seriously because 
they are expressed with that dreary solemnity which is the only mode 
of expression their authors are capable of. Secondly, to find a learned 
diversion and a pleasing joke in More's account of the stupid 
brutalities of early sixteenth century wars, of the anguish of the poor 
and dispossessed, of the insolence and cruelty of the rich and powerful 
requires a callousness toward suffering and sin that would be surprising 
in a moral imbecile and most surprising in More himself. Indeed, 
it is even surprising in the Canon of Christ Church and Regius 
Professor of Ecclesiastical History, who fathered this most peculiar 
view, and in the brilliant Professor of Medieval and Renaissance 
English at Cambridge, who inherited it and is now its most eminent 
proponent.   But to return to the main line of our inquiry. It 
is doubtful that <Utopia> is still widely read because More was medieval 
or even because he was a martyr- indeed, it is likely that these 
days many who read <Utopia> with interest do not even know that 
its author was a martyr. <Utopia> is still widely read because in 
a sense More stood on the margin of modernity. And if he did stand 
on the margins of modernity, it was not in dying a martyr for such unity 
as Papal supremacy might be able to force on Western Christendom. 
It was not even in writing Latin epigrams, sometimes bawdy ones, or 
in translating Lucian from Greek into Latin or in defending the study 
of Greek against the attack of conservative academics, or in attacking 
the conservative theologians who opposed Erasmus's philological 
study of the New Testament. Similar literary exercises were the 
common doings of a Christian humanist of the first two decades of the 
sixteenth century. Had More's writings been wholly limited to such 
exercises, they would be almost as dimly remembered as those of a dozen 
or so other authors living in his time, whose works tenuously survive 
in the minds of the few hundred scholars who each decade in pursuit 
of their very specialized occasions read those works.   More 
stands on the margins of modernity for one reason alone- because he 
wrote <Utopia>. And the evidence that he does, indeed, stand there 
derives quite simply from the vigorous interest with which rather casual 
readers have responded to that book for the past century or so. 
Only one other contemporary of More's evokes so immediate and direct 
a response, and only one other contemporary work- Niccolo Machiavelli 
and <The Prince>. Can we discover what it is in <Utopia> 
that has evoked this response? Remember that in seeking the modern 
in <Utopia> we do not deny the existence of the medieval and the Renaissance 
there; we do not even need to commit ourselves to assessing 
on the same inconceivable 
scale the relative importance of the medieval, the 
Renaissance, and the modern. The medieval was the most important 
to Chambers because he sought to place Thomas More, the author of 
<Utopia>, in some intelligible relation with St& Thomas More, 
the martyr. To others whose concern it is to penetrate the significance 
of Christian Humanism, the Renaissance elements are of primary 
concern. But here we have a distinctly modern preoccupation; we want 
to know why that book has kept on selling the way it has; we want 
to know what is perennially new about <Utopia>.   What is new 
about it? To that question the answer is simple; it can be made 
in two words, Utopian communism. But it is an answer which opens the 
door wide to an onrush of objections and denials. Surely there is nothing 
new about communism. We find it in Plato's <republic>, and 
in <Utopia> More acknowledges his debt to that book. We find it 
in that "common way of life **h pleasing to Christ and **h still in 
use among the truest societies of Christians", that is, the better 
monasteries which made it easier to convert the Utopians to 
Christianity. 
We find it in the later Stoic conception of man's natural condition 
which included the community of all possessions. This conception 
was taken up by the early Church Fathers and by canon lawyers and 
theologians in the Middle Ages; and More was far too well read not 
to have come across it in one or several of the forms thus given it.

But although the idea of communism is very old even in More's 
day and did not spring full-clad from his imagination in 1515, it 
is not communism as such that we are concerned with. We are concerned 
not with the genus communism nor with other species of the genus: 
Platonic, Stoic, early Christian, monastic, canonist or theological 
communism; we are concerned with Utopian communism- that is, simply 
communism as it appears in the imaginary commonwealth of Utopia, 
as More conceived it. Perhaps one way to sharpen our sense of the modernity 
of Utopian communism is to contrast it with the principal earlier 
types of communistic theory. We will achieve a more vivid sense 
of what it is by realizing what it is not.   In Plato's <Republic> 
communism is- to speak anachronistically- a communism of Janissaries. 
Its function is to separate from the base ruled mass, among 
whom private ownership prevails, the governing warrior elite. Moreover, 
it is too readily forgotten that in the <Republic> what 
gave 
the initial impetus to Plato's excursus into the construction of an 
imaginary commonwealth with its ruling-class communism of goods, wives, 
and children, was his quest for a canon for the proper ordering of 
the individual human psyche; and it is to this problem that the <Republic> 
ultimately returns. In More's <Utopia> communism is not 
a means of separating out a warrior elite from the lumpish mass. Utopian 
communism applies to all Utopians. And in the economy of the 
book it is not peripheral but central. The concern of <Utopia> is 
with the <optimo reipublicae statu>, the best ordering of a civil society; 
and it is again and again made clear that Utopian communism 
provides the institutional array indispensible to that best ordering.

To derive Utopian communism from the Jerusalem Christian community 
of the apostolic age or from its medieval successors-in-spirit, 
the monastic communities, is with an appropriate shift of adjectives, 
misleading in the same way as to derive it from Plato's <Republic>: 
in the <Republic> we have to do with an elite of physical 
and intellectual athletes, in the apostolic and monastic communities with 
an elite of spiritual and religious athletes. The apostolic community 
was literally an elite: chosen by Christ himself. And the monastic 
communities were supposed to be made up of volunteers selected only 
after a novitiate which would test their religious aptitude for monastic 
rigors, their spiritual athleticism.   Finally, the conception 
of the <natural> community of all possessions which originated 
with the Stoics was firmly fixed in a tradition by More's time, although 
it was not accepted by all the theologian-philosophers of the 
Middle Ages. In that tradition communism lay a safe distance back in 
the age of innocence before the Fall of Man. It did not serve to 
contrast the existing order of society with a possible alternative order, 
because the age of innocence was not a possible alternative once man 
had sinned. The actual function of patristic-civilian-canonist-scholastic 
communism was adequately set forth by St& Gregory almost a 
millenium before More wrote <Utopia>.   "The soil is common 
to all men **h. When we give the necessities of life to the poor, 
we restore to them what is already theirs. We should think of it more 
as an act of justice than compassion".   Because community not 
severalty of property is the law of nature no man can assert an absolutely 
unalterable right to what is his. Indeed, of all that is his every 
man is by nature and reason and therefore by conscience obligated 
to regard himself as a custodian. He is a trustee for the common good, 
however feeble the safeguards which the positive or municipal law of 
property provides against his misuse of that share of the common fund, 
wisely or unwisely, entrusted to his keeping. In contrast to this 
Stoic-patristic view, <Utopia> implies that the nature of man is such 
that to rely on individual conscience to supply the deficiencies of 
municipal law is to embark on the bottomless sea of human sinfulness 
in a sieve. The Utopians brace conscience with legal sanctions. In 
a properly ordered society the massive force of public law performs the 
function which in natural law theory ineptly is left altogether to 
a small voice so often still.   In all the respects just 
indicated 
Utopian communism differs from previous conceptions in which community 
of possessions and living plays a role. Neither from one of these 
conceptions nor from a combination of them can it be deduced. We do 
not deny originality to the <Agamemnon> because Aeschylus found the 
tales of the house of Atreus among the folk lore of the Greeks. In 
a like sense whatever bits or shreds of previous conceptions one may 
find in it, Utopian communism remains, as an integral whole, original- 
a new thing. It is not merely a new thing; it is one of the very 
few new things in <Utopia>; most of the rest is medieval or humanist 
or part of an old tradition of social criticism. But to say that 
at a moment in history something is <new> is not necessarily to say 
that it is modern; and for this statement the best evidence comes 
within the five years following the publication of <Utopia>, when 
Martin Luther elaborates a new perception of the nature of the Divine's 
encounter with man. New, indeed, is Luther's perception, but 
not modern, as anyone knows who has ever tried to make intelligible 
to modern students what Luther was getting at.   Although Utopian 
communism is both new in 1516 and also modern, it is not modern communism 
or even modern socialism, as they exist or have ever existed in 
theory or in practice. Consider the features of Utopian communism: 
generous public provision for the infirm; democratic and secret elections 
of all officers including priests, meals taken publicly in common 
refectories; a common habit or uniform prescribed for all citizens; 
even houses changed once a decade; six hours of manual labor 
a day for all but a handful of magistrates and scholars, and careful measures 
to prevent anyone from shirking; no private property, no money; 
no sort of pricing at all for any goods or services, and therefore 
no market in the economic sense of the term. Whatever the merits of 
its intent, Utopian communism is far too naive, far too crude, to suit 
any modern socialist or communist. It is not the details of Utopian 
communism that make <Utopia> modern, it is the spirit, the attitude 
of mind that informs those details. What that spirit and attitude 
were we can best understand if we see more precisely how it contrasts 
with the communist tradition with the longest continuous history, the 
one which reached Christianity by the way of Stoicism through the 
Church Fathers of Late Antiquity.

During the Dorr trial the Democratic press condemned the proceedings 
and heralded Dorr as a martyr to the principles of the Declaration 
of Independence. During the Brown trial, however, the state's 
most powerful Democratic newspaper, the Providence <Daily Post>, 
stated that Brown was a murderer, a man of blood, and that he and 
his associates, with the assistance of Republicans and Abolitionists, 
had plotted not only the liberation of the slaves but also the overthrow 
of state and federal governments. The Providence <Daily Journal> 
answered the <Daily Post> by stating that the raid of John 
Brown was characteristic of Democratic acts of violence and that "He 
was acting in direct opposition to the Republican Party, who proclaim 
as one of their cardinal principles that they do not interfere 
with slavery in the states". The two major newspapers in Providence 
continued, throughout the crisis, to accuse each other of misrepresenting 
the facts and attempting to falsify history.   While the 
<Daily Post> continued to accuse Republicans and the <Daily Journal> 
continued to accuse Democrats, the Woonsocket <Patriot> complained 
that the Virginia authorities showed indecent and cowardly 
haste to condemn Brown and his men. Editor Foss stated, "Of their 
guilt **h there can be no doubt **h but they are entitled to sufficient 
time to prepare for trial, and **h a fair trial". The Providence 
<Daily Post> thought that there were probably good reasons for 
the haste in which the trial was being conducted and that the only thing 
gained by a delay would be calmer feelings. The Providence <Daily 
Journal> stated that although the guilt of Brown was evident, the 
South must guarantee him a fair trial to preserve domestic peace.

On October 31, 1859, John Brown was found guilty of treason 
against the state of Virginia, inciting slave rebellion, and murder. 
For these crimes he was sentenced to be hanged in public on Friday, 
December 2, 1859. Upon receiving the news, Northern writers, editors, 
and clergymen heaped accusations of murder on the Southern states, 
particularly Virginia.   Although Rhode Islanders were preparing 
for the state elections, they watched John Brown's trial with 
extreme interest. On Wednesday morning, November 2, 1859, the Providence 
<Daily Journal> stated that although Brown justly deserved 
the extreme penalty, no man, however criminal, ought to suffer the penalty 
without a fairer trial. The editor's main criticism of the trial 
was the haste with which it was conducted. The readers of the Providence 
<Daily Post>, however, learned that it was generally conceded 
that "Old Brown" had a fair trial. Concerning the sentence 
the editor asked, "What else can Virginia do than to hang the men 
who have 
defied her laws, organized treason, and butchered her citizens".

In the eastern section of the state the newspapers' reaction 
to Brown's trial and sentence were basically identical. J& 
Wheaton Smith, editor of the Warren <Telegraph> stated that "the 
ends of justice must be satisfied, a solitary example must be set, 
in order that all those misnamed philantropists [<sic>], who, actuated 
by a blind zeal, dare to instigate riot, treason, and murder, may 
heed it and shape their future course accordingly". The editor of 
the Newport <Advertiser> could discover no evidence of extenuating 
circumstances in the Brown trial which would warrant making an exception 
to the infliction of capital punishment.   In direct contrast 
to the other Rhode Island editors, Samuel S& Foss of the Woonsocket 
<Patriot> outwardly condemned the trial as being completely 
unfair. Concerning the sentence, Foss wrote, "If it be possible 
**h that mercy shall override vengeance **h and that John Brown's 
sentence shall be commuted to imprisonment, it would be well- well 
for the country **h and for Virginia".   Despite the excitement 
being caused by the trial and sentence of John Brown, Rhode Islanders 
turned their attention to the state elections. The state had 
elected Republican candidates in the past two years. There was no doubt 
as to the control the Republican party exercised throughout the 
state. If it failed on occasion to elect its candidates for general state 
offices by majorities, the failure was due to a lingering remnant 
of the Know-Nothing party, which called itself the American Republican 
party. The American Republicans and the Republicans both nominated 
Lieutenant-Governor Turner for governor. Elisha R& Potter 
was the Democratic candidate. The results of the election of 1859 
found Republican candidates not only winning the offices of governor 
and lieutenant-governor but also obtaining the two Congressional offices 
from the eastern and western sections of the state.   During 
the month of November hardly a day passed when there was not some mention 
of John Brown in the Rhode Island newspapers. On November 
7, 1859, the Providence <Daily Journal> reprinted a letter sent 
to John Brown from "E& B&", a Quaker lady in Newport. In 
reference to Brown's raid she wrote, "though we are non-resistants 
and religiously believe it better to reform by moral and not by carnal 
weapons **h we know thee was anemated [<sic>] by the most generous 
and philanthropic motives". "E& B&" compared John Brown 
to Moses in that they were both acting to deliver millions from 
oppression. In contrast to "E& B&", most Rhode Islanders 
hardly thought of John Brown as being another Moses. Most attempts 
to develop any sympathy for Brown and his actions found an unresponsive 
audience in Rhode Island.   On Wednesday evening, November 
23, 1859, in Warren, Rev& Mark Trafton of New Bedford, gave 
a "Mission of Sympathy" lecture in which he favorably viewed the 
Harper's Ferry insurrection. The Warren <Telegraph> stated 
that many of Rev& Trafton's remarks were inappropriate and savored 
strongly of radicalism and fanaticism. In its account of the Trafton 
lecture, the Providence <Daily Post> said that the remarks 
of 
Rev& Trafton made the people indignant.   No sympathy or admiration 
for Brown could be found in the Providence <Daily Post>, 
for the editor claimed that there were a score of men in the state prison 
who were a thousand times more deserving of sympathy. The Providence 
<Daily Journal>, however, stated that Brown's courage, bravery, 
and heroism "in a good cause would make a man a martyr; it gives 
something of dignity even to a bad one". The Woonsocket <Patriot> 
admitted that John Brown might deserve punishment or imprisonment 
"but he should no more be hung than Henry A& Wise or James 
Buchanan". The Newport <Mercury> exhibited more concern over 
the possibility of the abolitionists making a martyr of Brown than it 
did over the development of sympathy for him.   In her letter 
to John Brown, "E& B&", the Quakeress from Newport, had 
suggested that the American people owed more honor to John Brown for 
seeking to free the slaves than they did to George Washington. During 
the latter days of November to the day of Brown's execution, 
it seems that most Rhode Islanders did not concur in "E& B&'s" 
suggestion. On November 22, 1859, the Providence <Daily Journal> 
stated that although Brown's "pluck" and honest fanaticism 
must be admired, any honor paid to Brown would only induce other fanatics 
to imitate his actions. A week later the <Daily Journal> 
had 
discovered the initial plans of some Providence citizens to hold a 
meeting honoring John Brown on the day of his execution. The editor 
of the <Daily Journal> warned, "**h that if such a demonstration 
be made, it will not find support or countenance from any of the men 
whose names are recognized as having a right to speak for Providence". 
The Providence <Daily Post>'s editor wrote that he could 
not 
believe that a meeting honoring Brown was to be held in Providence. 
He further called upon the people of Providence to rebuke the meeting 
and avoid disgrace.   On December 2, 1859, John Brown was 
hanged at Charles Town, Virginia. Extraordinary precautions were 
taken so that no stranger be allowed in the city and no citizen within 
the enclosure surrounding the scaffold. In many Northern towns and 
cities meetings were held and church bells were tolled. Such was not 
the case in Rhode Island. The <only> public demonstration in honor 
of John Brown was held at Pratt's Hall in Providence, on the 
day of his execution.   Despite the opposition of the city newspapers, 
the Pratt Hall meeting "brought together a very respectable 
audience, composed in part of those who had been distinguished for years 
for their radical views upon the subject of slavery, of many of our 
colored citizens, and of those who were attracted to the place by the 
novelty of such a gathering". Seated on the platform were Amos C& 
Barstow, ex-mayor of Providence and a wealthy Republican stove 
manufacturer; Thomas Davis, an uncompromising Garrisonian; the 
Reverend Augustus Woodbury, a Unitarian minister; the Reverend 
George T& Day, a Free-Will Baptist; Daniel w& Vaughan, 
and William H& H& Clements. The latter two were appointed secretaries. 
The first speaker was Amos C& Barstow who had been unanimously 
chosen president of the meeting. He spoke of his desire to promote 
the abolition of slavery by peaceable means and he compared John 
Brown of Harper's Ferry to the John Brown of Rhode Island's 
colonial period. Barstow concluded that as Rhode Island's John 
Brown became a canonized hero, if not a saint, so would it be with 
John Brown of Harper's Ferry.   The next speaker was George 
T& Day. Although admitting Brown's guilt on legal grounds, 
Day said that, "Brown is no common criminal; his deed was not 
below, but above the law". 
Following Day was Woodbury who spoke of his 
disapproval of Brown's attempt at servile insurrection, his admiration 
of Brown's character, and his opposition to slavery. Woodbury's 
remarks were applauded by a portion of the audience several times 
and once there was hissing.   The fourth and last speaker was Thomas 
Davis. By this time large numbers of the audience had left the 
hall. Davis commenced his remarks by an allusion to the general feeling 
of opposition which the meeting had encountered from many of the 
citizens and all the newspapers of the city. He said that the propriety 
or impropriety of such a gathering was a question that was to be settled 
by every man in accordance with the convictions of private judgments. 
In the remainder of his speech Davis spoke of his admiration for 
Brown and warned those who took part in the meeting that they "are 
liable to the charge that they are supporting traitors and upholding 
men whom the laws have condemned". He recalled that in Rhode Island 
a party opposed to the state's condemnation of a man (Thomas W& 
Dorr) proclaimed the state's action as a violation of the law 
of the land and the principles of human liberty. At the close of Davis' 
speech the following preamble and resolutions were read by the president, 
and on the question of their adoption passed unanimously:

Whereas, John Brown has cheerfully risked his life in endeavoring 
to deliver those who are denied all rights **h and is this day doomed 
to suffer death for his efforts in behalf of those who have no helper: 
Therefore,   Resolved that, while we most decidedly disapprove 
the methods he adopted to accomplish his objects, yet **h in his 
willingness to die in aid of the great cause of human freedom, we still 
recognize the qualities of a noble nature and the exercise of a spirit 
which true men have always admired and which history never fails 
to honor.   Resolved that his wrongs and bereavements in Kansas, 
occasioned by the violence and brutality of those who were intent on 
the propagation of slavery in that territory, call for a charitable 
judgment upon his recent efforts in Virginia to undermine the despotism 
from which he had suffered, and commend his family to the special 
sympathy and aid of all who pity suffering and reverence justice.

Resolved **h that the anti-slavery sentiment is becoming ripe for 
resolute action.   Resolved, that we find in this fearful tragedy 
at Harper's Ferry a reason for more earnest effort to remove the 
evil of slavery from the whole land as speedily as possible **h.

On the morning following the Pratt Hall meeting the editor of the 
Providence <Daily Journal> wrote that although the meeting was 
milder and less extreme than those held in other areas for similar purposes, 
it could have been avoided completely. 
Rather than being deceived, the eye is puzzled; instead of seeing objects 
in space, it sees nothing more than- a picture.   Through 
1911 and 1912, as the Cubist facet-plane's tendency to adhere to 
the literal surface became harder and harder to deny, the task of keeping 
the surface at arm's length fell all the more to eye-undeceiving 
contrivances. To reinforce, and sometimes to replace, the simulated 
typography, Braque and Picasso began to mix sand and other foreign 
substances with their paint; the granular texture thus created likewise 
called attention to the reality of the surface and was effective 
over much larger areas. In certain other pictures, however, Braque began 
to paint areas in exact simulation of wood graining or marbleizing. 
These areas by virtue of their abrupt density of pattern, stated the 
literal surface with such new and superior force that the resulting 
contrast drove the simulated printing into a depth from which it could 
be rescued- and set to shuttling again- only by conventional perspective; 
that is, by being placed in such relation to the forms depicted 
within the illusion that these forms left no room for the typography 
except near the surface.   The accumulation of such devices, 
however, soon had the effect of telescoping, even while separating, 
surface and depth. The process of flattening seemed inexorable, and it 
became necessary to emphasize the surface still further in order to 
prevent it from fusing with the illusion. It was for this reason, and 
no other that I can see, that in September 1912, Braque took the radical 
and revolutionary step of pasting actual pieces of imitation-woodgrain 
wallpaper to a drawing on paper, instead of trying to simulate 
its texture in paint. Picasso says that he himself had already made 
his first collage toward the end of 1911, when he glued a piece of 
imitation-caning 
oilcloth to a painting on canvas. It is true that his first 
collage looks more Analytical than Braque's, which would confirm 
the date he assigns it. But it is also true that Braque was the 
consistent pioneer in the use of simulated textures as well as of typography; 
and moreover, he had already begun to broaden and simplify the 
facet-planes of Analytical Cubism as far back as the end of 1910. 
##

When we examine what each master says was his first collage we 
see that much the same thing happens in each. (It makes no real difference 
that Braque's collage is on paper and eked out in charcoal, 
while Picasso's is on canvas and eked out in oil.) By its greater 
corporeal presence and its greater extraneousness, the affixed paper 
or cloth serves for a seeming moment to push everything else into a more 
vivid <idea> of depth than the simulated printing or simulated textures 
had ever done. But here again, the surface-declaring device both 
overshoots and falls short of its aim. For the illusion of depth created 
by the contrast between the affixed material and everything else 
gives way immediately to an illusion of forms in bas-relief, which gives 
way in turn, and with equal immediacy, to an illusion that seems 
to contain both- or neither.   Because of the size of the areas 
it covers, the pasted paper establishes undepicted flatness <bodily>, 
as more than an indication or sign. Literal flatness now tends to 
assert itself as the main event of the picture, and the device boomerangs: 
the illusion of depth is rendered even more precarious than before. 
Instead of isolating the literal flatness by specifying and circumscribing 
it, the pasted paper or cloth releases and spreads it, and 
the artist seems to have nothing left but this undepicted flatness with 
which to finish as well as start his picture. The actual surface 
becomes both ground and background, and it turns out- suddenly and paradoxically- 
that the only place left for a three-dimensional illusion 
is in <front> of, <upon>, the surface. In their very first collages, 
Braque and Picasso draw or paint <over> and <on> the affixed 
paper or cloth, so that certain of the principal features of their 
subjects <as depicted> seem to thrust out into real, bas-relief space- 
or to be about to do so- while the rest of the subject remains 
imbedded in, or flat upon, the surface. And the surface is driven back, 
in its very surfaceness, only by this contrast.   In the upper 
center of Braque's first collage, <Fruit Dish> (in Douglas 
Cooper's collection), a bunch of grapes is rendered with such conventionally 
vivid sculptural effect as to lift it practically off the picture 
plane. The <trompe-l'oeil> illusion here is no longer enclosed 
between parallel flatnesses, but seems to thrust through the surface 
of the drawing paper and establish depth <on top> of it. Yet the 
violent immediacy of the wallpaper strips pasted to the paper, and the 
only lesser immediacy of block capitals that simulate window lettering, 
manage somehow to push the grape cluster back into place on the picture 
plane so that it does not "jump". At the same time, the wallpaper 
strips themselves seem to be pushed into depth by the lines and 
patches of shading charcoaled upon them, and by their placing in relation 
to the block capitals; and these capitals seem in turn to be pushed 
back by <their> placing, and by contrast with the corporeality 
of the woodgraining. Thus every part and plane of the picture keeps 
changing place in relative depth with every other part and plane; and 
it is as if the only stable relation left among the different parts 
of the picture is the ambivalent and ambiguous one that each has with 
the surface. And the same thing, more or less, can be said of the contents 
of Picasso's first collage.   In later collages of both 
masters, a variety of extraneous materials are used, sometimes in the 
same work, and almost always in conjunction with every other eye-deceiving 
and eye-undeceiving device they can think of. The area adjacent 
to one edge of a piece of affixed material- or simply of a painted-in 
form- will be shaded to pry that edge away from the surface, while 
something will be drawn, painted or even pasted over another part of 
the same shape to drive it back into depth. Planes defined as parallel 
to the surface also cut through it into real space, and a depth is 
suggested optically which is greater than that established pictorially. 
All this expands the oscillation between surface and depth so as to 
encompass fictive space in front of the surface as well as behind it. 
Flatness may now monopolize everything, but it is a flatness become 
so ambiguous and expanded as to turn into illusion itself- at least 
an optical if not, properly speaking, a pictorial illusion. Depicted, 
Cubist flatness is now almost completely assimilated to the literal, 
undepicted kind, but at the same time it reacts upon and largely transforms 
the undepicted kind- and it does so, moreover, without depriving 
the latter of its literalness; rather, it underpins and reinforces 
that literalness, re-creates it. ##

Out of this re-created literalness, 
the Cubist subject reemerged. For it had turned out, by a 
further paradox of Cubism, that the means to an illusion of depth and 
plasticity had now become widely divergent from the means of representation 
or imaging. In the Analytical phase of their Cubism, Braque 
and Picasso had not only had to minimize three-dimensionality simply 
in order to preserve it; they had also had to <generalize> it- 
to the point, finally, where the illusion of depth and relief became abstracted 
from specific three-dimensional entities and was rendered largely 
as the illusion of depth and relief <as such:> as a disembodied 
attribute and expropriated property detached from everything not itself. 
In order to be saved, plasticity had had to be isolated; and 
as the aspect of the subject 
was transposed into those clusters of more or less interchangeable 
and contour-obliterating facet-planes by which plasticity 
was isolated under the Cubist method, the subject itself became largely 
unrecognizable. Cubism, in its 1911-1912 phase (which the French, 
with justice, call "hermetic") was on the verge of abstract art.

It was then that Picasso and Braque were confronted with 
a unique dilemma: they had to choose <between> illusion and representation. 
If they opted for illusion, it could only be illusion per se- 
an illusion of depth, and of relief, so general and abstracted as 
to exclude the representation of individual objects. If, on the other 
hand, they opted for representation, it had to be representation per 
se- representation as image pure and simple, without connotations (at 
least, without more than schematic ones) of the three-dimensional space 
in which the objects represented originally existed. It was the 
collage that made the terms of this dilemma clear: the representational 
could be restored and preserved only on the flat and literal surface 
now that illusion and representation had become, for the first time, 
mutually exclusive alternatives.   In the end, Picasso and Braque 
plumped for the representational, and it would seem they did so 
deliberately. (This provides whatever real justification there is for 
the talk about "reality".) But the inner, formal logic of Cubism, 
as it worked itself out through the collage, had just as much to do 
with shaping their decision. When the smaller facet-planes of Analytical 
Cubism were placed upon or juxtaposed with the large, dense shapes 
formed by the affixed materials of the collage, they had to coalesce- 
become "synthesized"- into larger planar shapes themselves 
simply in order to maintain the integrity of the picture plane. Left 
in their previous atom-like smallness, they would have cut away too abruptly 
into depth; and the broad, opaque shapes of pasted paper would 
have been isolated in such a way as to make them jump out of plane. 
Large planes juxtaposed with other large planes tend to assert themselves 
as <independent> shapes, and to the extent that they are flat, 
they also assert themselves as silhouettes; and independent silhouettes 
are apt to coincide with the recognizable contours of the subject 
from which a picture starts (if it does start from a subject). It was 
because of this chain-reaction as much as for any other reason- that 
is, because of the growing independence of the planar unit in collage 
as a <shape>- that the identity of depicted objects, or at least 
parts of them, re-emerged in Braque's and Picasso's <papiers colles> 
and continued to remain more conspicuous there- but only as 
flattened silhouettes- than in any of their paintings done wholly in 
oil before the end of 1913.   Analytical Cubism came to an end 
in the collage, but not conclusively; nor did Synthetic Cubism fully 
begin there. Only when the collage had been exhaustively translated 
into oil, and transformed by this translation, did Cubism become 
an affair of positive color and flat, interlocking silhouettes whose legibility 
and placement created allusions to, if not the illusion of, 
unmistakable three-dimensional identities.   Synthetic Cubism began 
with Picasso alone, late in 1913 or early in 1914; this was the 
point at which he finally took the lead in Cubist innovation away from 
Braque, never again to relinquish it. But even before that, Picasso 
had glimpsed and entered, for a moment, a certain revolutionary path 
in which no one had preceded him. It was as though, in that instant, 
he had felt the flatness of collage as too constricting and had suddenly 
tried to escape all the way back- or forward- to literal three-dimensionality. 
This he did by using utterly literal means to carry 
the forward push of the collage (and of Cubism in general) <literally> 
into the literal space in front of the picture plane.   Some 
time in 1912, Picasso cut out and folded a piece of paper in the 
shape of a guitar; to this he glued and fitted other pieces of paper 
and four taut strings, thus creating a sequence of flat surfaces in real 
and sculptural space to which there clung only the vestige of a picture 
plane. The affixed elements of collage were extruded, as it were, 
and cut off from the literal pictorial surface to form a bas-relief. 
(Los Angeles in 1957 finally bowed to the skyscraper.) And without 
high density in the core, rapid-transit systems cannot be maintained 
economically, let alone built from scratch at today's prices. 
However, the building of freeways and garages cannot continue forever. 
The new interchange among the four Los Angeles freeways, including 
the grade-constructed accesses, occupies by itself no less than <eighty 
acres> of downtown land, one-eighth of a square mile, an area 
about the size of Rockefeller Center in New York. It is hard to believe 
that this mass of intertwined concrete constitutes what the law 
calls "the highest and best use" of centrally located urban land. 
As it affects the city's fiscal situation, such an interchange is 
ruinous; it removes forever from the tax rolls property which should 
be taxed to pay for the city services. Subways improved land values 
without taking away land; freeways boost valuation less (because the 
garages they require are not prime buildings by a long shot), and reduce 
the acreage that can be taxed. Downtown Los Angeles is already 
two-thirds freeway, interchange, street, parking lot and garage- one 
of those preposterous "if" statistics has already come to pass.

The freeway with narrowly spaced interchanges concentrates and 
mitigates the access problem, but it also acts inevitably as an artificial, 
isolating boundary. City planners do not always use this boundary 
as effectively as they might. Less ambitious freeway plans may be 
more successful- especially when the roadways and interchanges are 
raised, allowing for cross access at many points and providing parking 
areas below the ramp. ##

Meanwhile, the automobile and its friend 
the truck have cost the central city some of its industrial dominance. 
In ever greater numbers, factories are locating in the suburbs or 
in "industrial parks" removed from the city's political jurisdiction. 
The appeal of the suburb is particularly strong for heavy industry, 
which must move bulky objects along a lengthy assembly line and wants 
enough land area to do the entire job on one floor. To light industry, 
the economies of being on one floor are much slighter, but efficiency 
engineers usually believe in them, and manufacturers looking for 
ways to cut costs cannot be prevented from turning to efficiency engineers.

This movement of industry away from the central cities 
is not so catastrophically new as some prophets seem to believe. It 
is merely the latest example of the leapfrog growth which formed the pattern 
of virtually all American cities. The big factories which are 
relatively near the centers of our cities- the rubber factories in 
Akron, Chrysler's Detroit plants, U&S&Steel's Pittsburgh 
works- often began on these sites at a time when <that> was the 
edge of the city, yet close to transport (river), storage (piers) and 
power (river). The "leapfrog" was a phenomenon of the railroad and 
the steam turbine, and the time when the belts of residence surrounding 
the old factory area were not yet blighted.   The truck and 
the car gave the manufacturer a new degree of freedom in selecting his 
plant site. Until internal combustion became cheap, he had to be near 
a railroad siding and a trolley line or an existing large community 
of lower-class homes. The railroad siding is still important- it 
is usually, though not always, true that long-haul shipment by rail is 
cheaper than trucking. But anybody who promises a substantial volume 
of business can get a railroad to run a short spur to his plant these 
days, and many businesses can live without the railroad. And there 
are now many millions of workers for whom the factory with the big parking 
lot, which can be reached by driving across or against the usual 
pattern of rush hour traffic and grille-route bus lines, is actually 
more convenient than the walk-to factory.   Willow Run, General 
Electric's enormous installations at Louisville and Syracuse, the 
Pentagon, Boeing in Seattle, Douglas and Lockheed in Los Angeles, 
the new automobile assembly plants everywhere- none of these is 
substantially served by any sort of conventional mass rapid transit. 
They are all suburban plants, relying on the roads to keep them supplied 
with workers. And wherever the new thruways go up their banks are 
lined by neat glass and metal and colored brick light industry. The 
drive along Massachusetts' Route 128, the by-pass which makes an 
arc about twenty miles from downtown Boston, may be a vision of the future.

The future could be worse. The plants along Route 128 
are mostly well designed and nicely set against the New England rocks 
and trees. They can even be rather grand, like Edward Land's monument 
to the astonishing success of Polaroid. But they deny the values 
of the city- the crowded, competitive, tolerant city, the "melting 
pot" which gave off so many of the most admirable American qualities. 
They are segregated businesses, combining again on one site 
the factory and the office, drawing their work force from segregated 
communities. It is interesting to note how many of the plants on Massachusetts' 
Route 128 draw most of their income either from the government 
in non-competitive cost-plus arrangements, or from the exploitation 
of patents which grant at least a partial monopoly. ##

While 
the factories were always the center of the labor market, they were 
often on the city's periphery. In spreading the factories even farther, 
the automobile may not have changed to any great extent the growth 
pattern of the cities. Even the loss of hotel business to the outskirt's 
motel has been relatively painless; the hotel-motel demarcation 
is becoming harder to find every year. What hurts most is the damage 
the automobile has done to central-city retailing, especially in 
those cities where public transit is feeble.   Some retailing, 
of course, always spreads with the population- grocery stores, drugstores, 
local haberdasheries and dress shops, candy stores and the like. 
But whenever a major purchase was contemplated forty years ago- a 
new bedroom set or a winter coat, an Easter bonnet, a bicycle for Junior- 
the family set off for the downtown department store, where the 
selection would be greatest. Department stores congregated in the 
"one hundred per cent location", where all the transit lines converged. 
These stores are still there, but the volume of the "downtown 
store" has been on a relative decline, while in many cities the suburban 
"branch" sells more and more dry goods. If the retailer and 
hotelman's downtown unit sales have been decreasing, however, his dollar 
volume continues to rise, and it is dollars which you put in the 
bank.   In most discussions of this phenomenon, the figures are 
substantially inflated. No suburban shopping-center branch- not even 
Hudson's vast Northland outside Detroit- does anything like 
the unit volume of business or carries anything like the variety of merchandise 
to be found in the home store. Telephone orders distort the 
picture: the suburbanite naturally calls a local rather than a central-city 
number if both are listed in an advertisement, especially if 
the local call eliminates city sales tax. The suburban branch is thereby 
credited with a sale which would have been made even if its glass 
doors had never opened. Accounting procedures which continue to charge 
a disproportionate overhead and warehouse expense to the main store 
make the branches seem more profitable than they are. In many cases 
that statement "We break even on our downtown operation and make money 
on our branches" would be turned around if the cost analysis were 
recalculated on terms less prejudicial to the old store. Fear of the 
competition- always a great motivating force in the American economy- 
makes retailers who do <not> have suburban operations exaggerate 
both the volume and the profitability of their rival's shiny new 
branches. The fact seems to be that very many large branch stores are 
uneconomical, that the choice of location in the suburbs is as important 
as it was downtown, and that even highly suburbanized cities will 
support only so many big branches. Moreover, the cost of operations 
is always high in <any> new store, as the conservative bankers who 
act as controllers for retail giants are beginning to discover.

When all has been said, however, the big branch store remains a major 
break with history in the development of American retailing. Just 
as the suburban factory may be more convenient than the downtown plant 
to the worker with a car, the trip to the shopping center may seem far 
easier than to the downtown department store, though both are the same 
distance from home. Indeed, there are some cities where the suburban 
shopping pulls customers who are geographically much nearer to downtown. 
Raymond Vernon reports that residents of East St& Louis 
have been driving across the Mississippi, through the heart of downtown 
St& Louis and out to the western suburbs for major shopping, simply 
because parking is easier at the big branches than it is in the heart 
of town. To the extent that the problem is merely parking, an aggressive 
downtown management, like that of Lazarus Brothers in Columbus, 
Ohio, can fight back successfully by building a garage on the lot 
next door. If the distant patron of the suburban branch has been frightened 
away from downtown by traffic problems, however, the city store 
can only pressure the politicians to do something about the highways 
or await the completion of the federal highway program. And if the 
affection for the suburban branch reflects a desire to shop with "nice 
people", rather than with the indiscriminate urban mass which supports 
the downtown department store, the central location may be in serious 
trouble. Today, according to land economist Homer Hoyt, shopping 
centers and their associated parking lots cover some 46,000 acres 
of land, which is almost exactly the total land area in all the nation's 
Central Business Districts put together.   The downtown 
store continues to offer the great inducement of variety, both within 
its gates and across the street, where other department stores are immediately 
convenient for the shopper who wants to see what is available 
before making up her mind. If anything may be predicted in the quicksilver 
world of retailing, it seems likely that the suburban branch will 
come to dominate children's clothing (taking the kid downtown is 
too much of a production), household gadgetry and the discount business 
in big-ticket items. Department stores were built on dry goods, especially 
ladies' fashions, and in this area, in the long run, the suburban 
branches will be hard put to compete against downtown. If this 
analysis is correct, the suburban branches will turn out to be what management's 
cost accountants refuse to acknowledge, marginal operations 
rather than major factors.   Historically in America the appeal 
of cities has been their color and life, the variety of experience 
they offered. "How ya gonna keep 'em down on the farm"? was 
a question that had to be asked long before they saw Paree. Though 
Americans usually lived in groups segregated by national origin or religious 
belief, they liked to work and shop in the noise and vitality 
of downtown. Only a radical change in the nature of the population in 
the central city would be likely to destroy this preference- and we 
must now turn our attention to the question of whether such a change, 
gloomily foreseen by so many urban diagnosticians, is actually upon us. 

#4. SUBURBS AND NEGROES#

In their book <American Skyline,> 
Christopher Tunnard and Henry Hope Reed argue that Franklin Roosevelt's 
New Deal was what made the modern suburb a possibility- 
a fine ironical argument, when you consider how suburbanites tend to 
vote. The first superhighways- New York's Henry Hudson and Chicago's 
Lake Shore, San Francisco's Bay Bridge and its approaches, 
a good slice of the Pennsylvania Turnpike- were built as 
part of the federal works program which was going to cure the depression. 
At the same time, Roosevelt's Federal Housing Administration, 
coupled with Henry Morgenthau's cheap-money policy, permitted 
ordinary lower-middle-class families to build their own homes. Bankers 
who had been reluctant to lend without better security than the house 
itself got that security from the U& S& government; householders 
who had been unable to pick up the burden of short-term high-interest 
mortgages found they could borrow for twenty-five years at 4 per 
cent, under government aegis. 
Before losing itself in the sands of the 19th Century, the grand stream 
of Italian Renaissance architectural decoration made a last appearance 
in the Brumidi frescos of the Capitol Rotunda in Washington.

The artistic generation after Brumidi was trained in the Paris 
of that time to a more meticulous standard of execution, and tended 
to overlook greatness of conception where faults and weakness were 
easy to find. But it is a great conception. The open ceiling, with 
allegorical and classical figures thrown in masses against the sky: 
the closed frieze, formally divided into historical scenes and tightly 
tied to the stone walls, belong in their large ordering to the line 
of Correggio and his Baroque followers. The descent may be remote, 
but this is surely the only full-scale example of that vigorous inheritance 
in the United States.   Constantino Brumidi designed the 
decorative scheme as a whole, in collaboration with the architect Charles 
U& Walter, at the time when plans were being made to replace 
the wooden dome of Bullfinch with the present much larger iron structure. 
After many years and many interruptions he was able to finish 
the canopy fresco, and slightly less than half the frieze, beginning 
with the Liberty group opposite the East door, and ending with William 
Penn, all but one leg, when a tragic accident ended his career. 
He left at his death sketches, drawn to scale, for the rest of the circle. 
These were carried out not too faithfully by Filippo Costaggini, 
who began by supplying the missing member to the founder of Pennsylvania 
and noting in pencil, in Italian, that he "began at this point".

When Costaggini had used up all the sketches thirty-six 
feet of empty frieze were left over. A blank undecorated void, plastered 
in roughcast, disfigured the wall of the Rotunda until 1951. Then, 
advised by the Architect of the Capitol, the Joint Committee 
for the Library, traditionally responsible for the works of art in the 
building, ordered the space cleared and painted in fresco, to show 
"the Peace after the Civil War", "the Spanish-American War", 
and "the Birth of Aviation", to match as nearly as feasible 
Brumidi's technique and composition. Later the cleaning and restoration 
were ordered, first of the older part of the frieze, finally of 
the canopy. What follows is therefore a description of three separate 
undertakings, the new frescoing of the gap, and the successive essays 
in conservation, with some discussion of problems that arose in connection 
with each.   For the use of students and future restorers, 
a full, day-by-day record was kept of all three undertakings, complete 
technical reports on what we found and what we did. These may be consulted 
in the office of the Architect of the Capitol, or the Library 
of Congress.   The first preliminary was inspecting the unfinished 
length of frieze, a jumble of roughcast and finish coats, all 
in 
bad condition. It was decided to strip the whole area down to the bricks, 
and to replace the rough coats up to one inch thickness to agree 
with the older artists' preparation, with a mortar, one part slaked 
lime, three parts sand, to be put on in two layers. Cartoons were drawn 
full size, after sketches had been made to satisfy all the authorities. 
There was some difficulty here. One had to manage the given subjects, 
three diverse recent events, so as to make them part of a classical 
frieze,- that is, a pattern of large figures filling the space, 
with not much else, against a blank background. Moreover, all three 
representations must be squeezed comfortably into little more than the 
length Brumidi allowed for each one of his.   When it was all 
arranged to fit, and not to interrupt the lengthwise flow of movement 
in the frieze, the cartoons were tried in place. The scaffolding, a 
confusion of heavy beams hanging from the gallery above, was strong and 
safe, but obscured visibility. Nothing could be seen from the floor, 
but by moving around the gallery one could get glimpses; and we were 
able to decide on some amplification of scale. To be sure of matching 
color as well as form, pieces of cartoon were traced on the roughcast, 
and large samples painted in fresco, then left two months to dry 
out to their final key. Later it was gratifying to note that they had 
set so solidly as to be hard to remove when the time came.   The 
scaffold was the length of the space to be painted. What bits of Brumidi 
and Costaggini could be reached at either end seemed in good 
order, though the roughish sandy surface was thick with dust. Washed, 
they came out surprisingly clear and bright. It could be seen that 
both artists used a very thick final coat of plaster, one half inch, 
and that both followed the traditional Italian fresco technique as described 
by Cennino Cennini in the 14th Century, and current in Italy 
to this day. That is, they used opaque color throughout, getting solid 
highlights with active lime white. Painting "a secco" is much 
in evidence. A brown hatching reinforces and broadens shadows, and 
much of the background is solidly covered with a dark coat. This brown 
is sometimes so rich in medium as to appear to be oil paint. 
In our own practice, to have the last "intonaco" plaster coat thick 
enough to match, and at the same time to avoid fine cracks in 
drying, 
we found that it had to be put on in two layers, letting the first 
set awhile before applying the second. The mortar was three parts sand 
to two of lime. Some of the lime that is always on hand in the Capitol 
basement for plaster repairs was slaked several months for us; 
but to make it stiffer, of a really putty-like consistency to avoid cracking, 
we added a little hydrated lime- hard on the hands, but we 
could see no other disadvantage. I am told that a mortar longer slaked 
might have remained longer in condition for painting. As it was, it 
took the pigment well for six hours, enough for our purpose, and held 
it firmly in setting. It was obvious that to match Brumidi, white must 
be mixed with all but the darkest tones. Lime white, hard and brilliant, 
has a tendency to "jump" away from the other colors in drying, 
and also by its capacity to set, to preclude the use of ready-made 
gradations, so useful in decorative work. In older Italian practice, 
lime, dried and reground "bianco sangiovanni", entered into such 
prepared shades. For convenience we chose a stronger pigment, 
unknown 
to the early Italians or to Brumidi, titanium oxide, reserving the 
active lime white for highest lights, put on at the end of the day's 
stint. Other pigments were mostly raw umber, some burnt umber, and 
a little yellow ochre. This last was probably not in Brumidi's palette, 
but was needed to take the chill, bluish look off the new work next 
to the old, where softening effects 
of time were seen, even after thorough 
cleaning. The use of "secco" we tried to restrict to covering 
joints. Experience showed, however, that it is very difficult to 
paint a dark umber background in fresco that will not dry out spotty 
and uneven. Later Brumidi and Costaggini will be seen coping with this 
same problem. We were forced, as they were, to work a good deal of 
tempera into background and dark areas. We made it by Doerner's 
recipe, five parts thoroughly washed cheese curd to one of lime putty; 
ground together they made a strong adhesive, which became waterproof 
in drying.   Figure 1 was taken in 1953. The new part is finished. 
On the right is the Brumidi Liberty group, as it looked after 
cleaning operations, which had not yet come around to the other end; 
where, of Costaggini, only some foliage has been washed, at the point 
where his work stopped. One is led to speculate as to why the empty 
space was there, left for our century to finish. Costaggini said it 
was Brumidi's fault in not providing enough material to fill the circle. 
Brumidi's son later maintained that Costaggini had compressed 
and mutilated his father's designs, ambitiously coveting a bit he 
could claim for his very own. This question might be settled by comparing 
the measurement of the actual circumference with the dimensions 
noted, presumably in Brumidi's hand, above the various sections of 
his long preparatory drawing, which has been kept. Whose ever 
fault, 
it is evident that Brumidi intended to fill out the whole frieze with 
his "histories" and come full circle with the scene of the discovery 
of California gold. In painting a fresco, the handling of wet mortar 
compels one always to move from top to bottom and from left to right, 
not to spoil yesterday's work with today's plastering. At the 
very first, then, Brumidi was required, by the classically pyramidal 
shape of his central group, to fill in the triangular space above the 
seated girl on Liberty's right, before starting on the allegorical 
figures themselves. Here he put a small man, whose missing hands 
might have left his function doubtful, until comparison with the first 
sketches showed that when the artist came back to the beginning, this 
was to be the closing figure of the party of "forty-niners", and 
was to hold a basket. One sees Costaggini's rendering of the same 
figure more than thirty feet away. The photograph, Figure 1 of the completed 
frieze, shows how, having been separated from his fellows in 
useless isolation for eighty years, he has now been given a hand, and 
by juxtaposition (and the permission of the Committee), given a new job, 
to represent the witnesses of the first flight at Kitty Hawk in 
1903.   The startlingly bright effect of the first washings led 
the Committee to order the rest of the Brumidi-Costaggini cycle cleaned 
and restored to go with them. The fixed wooden scaffold was removed, 
and, so as to reach all the frieze, one of pipe, on wheels, built 
up from the floor. Every few days, in the early morning, as the work 
progressed, twenty men would appear to push it ahead and to shift the 
plank foundation that distributed its weight widely on the Rotunda 
pavement, supported as it is by ancient brick vaulting.   On this 
giddy and oscillating platform over fifty feet from the floor, after 
a first dusting, we began to wash. A most useful tool for wetting the 
surface without running down was made from a greenhouse "mist spray" 
nozzle welded to a hose connection, to be used at low water pressure. 
A valve in the handle let us cut the pressure still lower. One 
man sprayed, with a sponge in hand to check excess wetting. A second 
assistant mopped with two sponges. In parts a repeated sponging was 
needed, but everywhere we found that water alone was enough to restore 
the original brightness. No soap or other cleaning agent was used that 
might bring in unwanted chemical reactions. The painting "a fresco" 
stood up superbly; a little of the "secco" came off. Necessary 
retouching was put on at once. Altogether we found the craftsmanship 
first rate, especially Brumidi's. We were greatly helped by 
there being no traces of former restoring. Apparently not more than 
dusting had ever been done, and not much of that. The plaster was sound, 
the intonaco firmly attached all over, and the pigment solidly incorporated 
with it in all but a few unimportant places.   The greatest 
source of trouble was rain which had repeatedly flowed from openings 
above, soaking the surface and leaving streaks of dissolved lime, 
very conspicuous even after cleaning, particularly in the "Landing 
of Columbus", "Oglethorpe and the Indians", and "Yorktown". 
Here the Architect, referring to the use of the Capitol as a 
public building, not a museum, requested some repainting to maintain decorative 
effect, rather than leaving blank, unsightly patches. 
These frescos have had no care for eighty years. With naked gas jets 
below and leaky windows above, enough to ruin wall paintings in any 
medium, they have survived, in a building long unheated in winter, hot 
and damp under the iron dome in summer.

Those whom I wish to address with this letter are for the most 
part unknown to me. It may well be that, when Rudy Pozzatti and I 
visited your country last spring, you were living and working close 
to the places we saw and the streets we walked. As American artists, 
it was natural that we would want to meet as many Soviet artists as 
possible. This letter might not have been necessary had our efforts 
to meet and talk with you been more successful. Even though we did not 
see many of your faces, it appears now quite evident that a considerable 
number of your profession heard, from those whom we had the fortune 
to encounter, that we had been in your midst. I am very pleased that 
quite a number of you found ways to communicate to me your desire to 
hear of our reactions and experiences in the U&S&S&R&. I 
can well understand your curiosity. We, ourselves, are always eager 
to know how others feel about us and the way in which we live. it is 
my hope that this written message and report will reach you through the 
good offices of the Union of Soviet Artists.   There should 
be no reason to misinterpret or ignore the intent of this letter. Pozzatti 
and I endeavored earnestly to record our impressions without the 
prejudice that the anxiety of our time so easily provokes. The time-span 
of little more than a month cannot entitle me to pose as an expert 
on anything I saw. Too much damage is done by "experts" who 
have spent even less time, if any at all, in the U&S&S&R&.

Nevertheless I consider it reasonable, because of my commitment 
as an artist, to assume that the rights and responsibilities of creative 
individuals are related to humanity as a whole rather than to specific 
geo-political interests. If this attitude is seriously questioned 
in the Soviet Union, it does not necessarily follow that the majority 
of the society in which I live is too aware of the necessity for 
clarity on this ethical as well as aesthetic point of view. It is 
a matter of some disappointment to me that still many of my own countrymen 
are too shortsighted to ascribe any symbolic significance to the 
plight of a minority, such as artists, in any social order. I encountered 
many questions and great interest upon my return from the Soviet Union 
about my reactions to that experience. That which I found most 
profound and most disturbing appeared to evoke a curiously muted reaction. 
Almost as if I were talking about something quite unreal. Apparently 
this is not the time and the climate in which people will listen 
objectively, or at least dispassionately, to individual impressions 
of a subject which preoccupies a good deal of their waking moments. Personal 
predispositions tend to blunt the ear and, in turn, the voice 
as well. I cannot be content with the anecdotal small talk of a somewhat 
unusual travelogue. I am equally impatient with the shrug of the 
shoulder, shake of the head of those who no longer care because they 
have known it for so long; the aggressive disbelief of those who are 
romantically lost in a semantic jungle of the word "Revolution"; 
the belligerent denunciations by the sick fanatics of ignorance who 
try to build a papier-mache wall of pseudo-patriotism on our physical 
horizons. Difficult as it may have been at times, Pozzatti and I saw 
enough, talked to enough artists, historians and others to realize 
that the issue is quite clear. Artists and poets are the raw nerve-ends 
of humanity; they are small in number and their contribution is not 
immediately decisive in everyday life. By themselves they may not 
be able to save the life on this planet, but without them there would 
be very little left worth saving.   It cannot be said that our 
very first day in the Soviet Union turned out to be an ordinary one. 
On that cold, but bright, April day we were guests of your government 
in the reviewing stand of Red Square to witness the poeple's celebration 
for Yuri Gagarin and later on that day we attended the somewhat 
more exclusive reception for him in one of the impressive palaces 
of the Kremlin. If we thus spent our very first day in the midst of 
a large number of your people honoring a new hero and a great national 
achievement, our last day, to us at least, was equally impressive and 
very moving, even though the crowds were absent and there was almost 
complete silence. We stood under a gigantic tree in the rolling country 
just outside of Moscow looking at silent flowers on the grave of 
a Russian poet and writer who cherished the love for his country to 
the point of foregoing the highest international honor. The grave, about 
half-way between his home and the blue turrets of a small church, 
rose above the forms and spaces of gently undisciplined pastures of green, 
the sounds of birds, the silence of other graves and the casual 
paths through small forests. Just yesterday we had met and talked with 
a living writer, a contemporary of the dead poet, who is known for his 
ability of manipulating his ideas and his craft more advantageously. 
But today we were aware of only two men. One had taken a flight into 
uncharted space, in the service of science, to return as a living hero. 
The other had assumed the right to explore the equally uncharted 
space of the human spirit. The flowers on his grave attested to the 
fact that he as well was somebody's hero.   These two recollections 
form the frame around a series of experiences and sights which, 
to me at least, symbolize the extremes in the aesthetic as well as ethical 
conflict between materialism and humanism. A struggle that is 
being waged all over the world in the half-light of disinterest. The 
prevalent opinion which we encountered in a variety of expressions in 
your country denied not only the existence of this conflict but it was 
elaborated even further with an incredible semantic dexterity. The socialist 
environment, it was stated, had cross-fertilized these two extreme 
seeds and was about to produce a new plant and fruit. When I speculated 
on one such occasion that the new growth, like other mutations, 
might be unable to propagate, I was immediately accused of preaching 
racial prejudice. I could not bring myself to answer that "some 
of my best friends are non-propagating mules".   This kind of 
reasoning and logic takes a little time to get used to. After a while 
we were perhaps less surprised, but still puzzled, when a friendly 
discussion would suddenly jump the track into the most irrelevant and 
illogical comparisons. A chance remark about Lenin's sealed train 
brought the rejoinder that this was a myth akin to George Washington's 
cherry tree. Theories of the behavior pattern of population masses 
were compared to scientific discoveries concerning the motion-pattern 
of gaseous masses. No wonder that Pozzatti and I had at times difficulty 
in remembering the real purpose of our presence, namely, Cultural 
Exchange.   Typical of such an experience was the occasion 
of a somewhat formal official welcome in the offices of the Union 
of Soviet Artists. We had looked forward to what we hoped to be our 
first informal meeting with a number of Moscow's artists. Instead, 
we became involved in a series of friendly, but overly formal, welcoming 
addresses to which we had no choice but to reply in kind. The terms 
of friendship, understanding, cooperation, etc&, tend to become 
somewhat shopworn because of constant and indiscriminate use. I can only 
hope that the continuing exchange of groups and individuals between 
our countries will not wear out all language pertinent to the occasion. 
The presiding female functionary, of massive proportions and forbidding 
appearance, initially did not contribute to the expressions of 
friendship and welcome by a number of dignified gentlemen representing 
the arts. It was only after we had responded, with what I fear were 
similar cliches, that she went into action by questioning our desire 
for friendship and understanding with a challenge about aggressive and 
warlike actions by the U&S& Government in Cuba and Laos. She 
retreated by leaving the room when we suggested that our meeting might 
well terminate right then and there. Unfortunately she returned later, 
just as I had taken advantage of the friendlier atmosphere in the 
room by stating that perhaps an unexpected result of the Cultural Exchange 
Program would be the re-emergence of Abstract Art in Russia, 
with Social Realism regaining dominance in the U&S&. This 
gave her an opportunity to ring down the curtain with the petulant admonition 
that we should not presume to lecture her on Abstraction. She 
did not go so far as to say, as was done on other occasions, that 
Abstraction as well as Impressionism were a Russian invention that 
had been discarded as unwanted by the people of the U&S&S&R&

Pozatti and I could not know then that we would experience 
this sort of treatment more often in Moscow than elsewhere. We were 
to discover, in fact, that quite a number of people share with us the 
impression that, in contrast to other Soviet regions, Moscow's atmosphere 
is depressingly subdued and official. To have one's intentions 
deliberately or unintentionally misunderstood is always a waste 
of time. Until our Moscow experience, I had not considered it necessary 
to prepare any argument formally or informally. Artists simply do 
not talk to each other in that fashion; and, furthermore, I could 
not presume the implication that I spoke for American artists as a 
group. To save time, some clarification seemed necessary. The following 
is a statement read to a large and friendly group of your fellow artists 
in Leningrad:   "We have come to your land with the 
express intention of understanding and respecting your ideas and your 
ways. Our presence here should also be considered further, sincere evidence 
of the attempts by our people and their chosen government to seek 
any and all possible ways to effect closer, peaceful ties among all 
people. We are quite convinced that one of the main hopes for the future 
depends upon the informal contacts and exchanges of ideas between 
individuals.

In spite of the relatively short period of time that we 
have experienced among you, we have already seen many indications of 
your character and spirit. We are acutely aware that yours is a society 
which, in spite of several wars and many privations, has developed 
itself into one of the foremost nations of the world. Your past history 
is resplendent with the fruits of the intellect. Your present history 
is equally admirable for its industrial and scientific achievements.

We have come to you to experience something of your way of life 
while 
also attempting to acquaint you with that of ours. While we, as American 
artists, 
believe deeply in the universal character of all intellectual 
activity, we would be less than honest with you, or ourselves, 
if we failed to state a specific attitude toward our own society as 
well as the international community as a whole. In stating this position, 
we should like to make it clear to you that we cannot expect artists 
and intellectuals in other lands to share our opinion in every respect. 
As a matter of fact, we prize the diversity among our own people 
so much that we will not presume to speak for all other American artists. 
But certainly, all will agree that it is not so much the knowledge 
and search for similarities between you and us, but rather the thoughtful 
exploration and acceptance of our differences which may lead 
us to our respective and desired goals with a minimum of misunderstanding.

Like yourselves, we have pride and love for our country. 
To many of us, this is a land to which we or our parents fled from totalitarian 
terror in order to live in dignified freedom. As artists we 
feel the same obligation, as do other individuals, in considering ourselves 
responsible citizens of a great nation. 
##

<The Sane Society> is an ambitious work. Its scope is as 
broad as the question: What does it mean to live in modern society? 
A work so broad, even when it is directed by a leading idea and informed 
by a moral vision, must necessarily "fail". Even a hasty reader 
will easily find in it numerous blind spots, errors of fact and 
argument, important exclusions, areas of ignorance and prejudice, undue 
emphases on trivia, examples of broad positions supported by flimsy 
evidence, and the like. Such books are easy prey for critics. Nor need 
the critic be captious. a careful and orderly man, who values precision 
and a kind of tough intellectual responsibility, might easily be 
put off by such a book. It is a simple matter, for one so disposed, to 
take a work like <The Sane Society> and shred it into odds and 
ends. The thing can be made to look like the cluttered attic of a large 
and vigorous family- a motley jumble of discarded objects, some outworn 
and some that were never useful, some once whole and bright but 
now chipped and tarnished, some odd pieces whose history no one remembers, 
here and there a gem, everything fascinating because it suggests 
some part of the human condition- the whole adding up to nothing more 
than a glimpse into the disorderly history of the makers and users.

That could be easily done, but there is little reason in it. 
It would come down to saying that Fromm paints with a broad brush, 
and 
that, after all, is not a conclusion one must work toward but an impression 
he has from the outset. I mention these features of the book 
because they are inherent in the book's character and therefore must 
be mentioned. It would be superfluous to build a critique around them. 
There are more substantial criticisms to be made of Fromm's account 
of capitalist civilization.   It is worthwhile to recall that 
Fromm's treatment has both descriptive and normative aspects. Since 
I have already discussed his moral position, that discussion is 
incorporated by reference into the following pages, which will focus 
on the empirical and analytic side of Fromm's treatment. I shall 
first indicate a couple of weaknesses in Fromm's analysis, then argue 
that, granted these weaknesses, he still has much left that is valuable, 
and, finally, raise the general question of a philosophical versus 
a sociological approach to the question of alienation.   Almost 
no empirical work has been done on the problem of alienation. Despite 
its rather long intellectual history, alienation is still a promising 
hypothesis and not a verified theory. The idea has received much 
attention in philosophy, in literature, and in a few works of general 
social criticism, such as <The Sane Society>. What is missing is 
work that would answer, presumably by the use of survey methods and Guttman-type 
attitude scales, such questions as these: What are the 
components 
of the feeling-state described as alienation? How widespread 
is alienation? What is its incidence among the various classes 
and subgroups of the population? Taking alienation as a dependent variable, 
with what socio-structural factors is it most highly associated? 
Considered as an independent variable, how does it affect behavior 
in various sectors of life? Until such work is done, there must 
remain the nagging suspicion that alienation may be little more than 
an expression of the malaise of the intellectual, who, rejected by and 
in turn rejecting the larger society, projects his own fear and despair 
onto the broader social screen.   I am not suggesting that 
Fromm ought to do this kind of work. Nor do I think that alienation 
is nothing more than a projection of the malaise of the intellectual. 
I am saying only that until a fuller and different kind of evidence 
comes in, any discussion of alienation must be understood to have certain 
important limitations.   Until such evidence appears, we must 
make do with the evidence we have. Here, perhaps, Fromm is vulnerable, 
for he does not always use the best and most recent evidence available, 
and he sometimes selects and interprets the evidence in rather 
special ways. Three examples follow.   Fromm's analysis of alienation 
in the sphere of production centers around the concepts of the 
bureaucratization of the corporation, the separation of ownership from 
control, and the broad (and thus from the point of view of corporate 
control, ineffective) dispersion of stock ownership. For all these 
points he relies exclusively on Berle and Means's study of 1932, <The 
Modern Corporation and Private Property>. The broad conclusions 
of that pioneering work remain undisturbed, but subsequent research 
has expanded and somewhat altered their empirical support, has suggested 
important revisions in the general analytic frame of reference, and 
has sharpened the meaning of particular analytic concepts in this area. 
Fromm seems unaware of these developments.   Another example 
is his very infrequent use of the large amount of data from surveys 
designed to discover what and how people actually do feel and think on 
a broad 
range of topics: he cites such survey-type findings just three 
times. Moreover, the conclusions he draws from the findings are not 
always the only ones possible. For example, he cites the following 
data from two studies on job satisfaction: in the first study, 85 per 
cent of professionals and executives, 64 per cent of white collar people, 
and 41 per cent of factory workers expressed satisfaction with 
their jobs; in the second study, the percentages were 86 for professionals, 
74 for managerial persons, 42 for commercial employees, 56 for 
skilled workers, and 48 for semi-skilled workers. He concludes that 
these 
data show a "remarkably high" percentage of consciously dissatisfied 
and unhappy persons among factory and clerical workers. Starting 
from other value premises than Fromm's, some analysts might conclude 
that the percentages really tell us very little at all, while others 
might even conclude that the figures are remarkably low. Eric Hoffer, 
for example, once said that America was a paradise- the only 
one in the history of the world- for workingmen and small children. 
What matters is that while Fromm's reading of the data is not the 
only one possible, it is precisely the one we would expect from a writer 
who earnestly believes that every man can and ought to be happy and 
satisfied. Fromm also cites a poll on attitudes toward work restriction 
conducted by the Opinion Research Corporation in 1945, in which 
49 per cent of manual workers said a man ought to turn out as much as 
he could in a day's work, while 41 per cent said he should not do 
his best but should turn out only the average amount. Fromm says these 
data show that job dissatisfaction and resentment are widespread. That 
is one way to read the findings, but again there are other ways. One 
might use such findings to indicate the strength of informal primary 
associations in the factory, an interpretation which would run counter 
to Fromm's theory of alienation. Or, he might remind Fromm that 
the 41 per cent figure is really astonishingly low: after all, the 
medieval guild system was dedicated to the proposition that 100 per 
cent of the workers ought to turn out only the average amount; and today's 
trade unions announce pretty much the same view.   In view 
of these shortcomings in both the amount and the interpretation of 
survey-type findings on public opinion, and considering the criticisms 
which can be brought against Fromm's philosophical anthropology, 
such a passage as the following cannot be taken seriously. "Are people 
happy, are they as satisfied, unconsciously, as they believe themselves 
to be? Considering the nature of man, and the conditions for 
happiness, this can hardly be so".   The ambiguities suggested 
above stem from a more basic difficulty in Fromm's style of thought. 
He seems to use the term alienation in two different ways. Sometimes 
he uses it as a subjective, descriptive term, and sometimes as an 
objective, diagnostic one. That is, sometimes it is used to <describe 
felt> human misery, and other times it is postulated to <explain unfelt> 
anxiety and discontent. The failure to keep these two usages 
distinct presents hazards to the reader. It also permits Fromm to do 
some dubious things with empirical findings. When alienation is used 
as an objective and diagnostic category, for example, it becomes clear 
that Fromm would have to say that awareness of alienation goes far 
toward conquering it. (He in effect does say this in his discussion of 
the pseudo-happiness of the automaton conformist.) Starting from this, 
and accepting his estimate of the iniquities of modern society, it 
would follow that the really disturbing evidence of alienation would 
be that of a work-satisfaction survey which reported widespread, stated 
worker satisfaction, rather than widespread, stated worker dissatisfaction.

The point is that in a system such as Fromm's which 
recognizes unconscious motivations, and which rests on certain ethical 
absolutes, empirical data can be used to support whatever proposition 
the writer is urging at the moment. Thus, in the example cited above 
Fromm rests his whole case on the premise that the workers are being 
deprived unconsciously, unknowingly, of fulfillment, and then supports 
this with survey data reporting conscious, experienced frustrations. 
He has his cake and eats it too: if the workers say they are dissatisfied, 
this shows conscious alienation; if they say they are satisfied, 
this shows unconscious alienation. This sort of manipulation is 
especially troublesome in Fromm's work because, although his system 
is derived largely from certain philosophic convictions, he asserts 
that it 
is based on empirical findings drawn both from social science and 
from his own consulting room. While the "empirical psychoanalytic" 
label which Fromm claims sheds no light on the validity of his underlying 
philosophy, it does increase the marketability of his product.

The final example of the failure to use available evidence, 
though evidence of a different kind from that which has so far been considered, 
comes from Fromm's treatment of some other writers who have 
dealt with the same themes. In a brief chapter dealing with "Various 
Other Diagnoses", he quotes isolated passages from some writers 
whose views seem to corroborate his own, and finds it "most remarkable 
that a critical view of twentieth-century society was already held 
by a number of thinkers living in the nineteenth **h". He finds 
it equally "remarkable that their critical diagnosis and prognosis 
should have so much in common among themselves and with the critics of 
the twentieth century". There is nothing remarkable about this at 
all. It is largely a matter of finding passages that suit one's purposes. 
There is a difference between evidence and illustration, and Fromm's 
citation of the other diagnosticians fits the latter category. 
Glance at the list: Burckhardt, Tolstoy, Proudhon, Thoreau, 
London, Marx, Tawney, Mayo, Durkheim, Tannenbaum, Mumford, A& 
R& Heron, Huxley, Schweitzer, and Einstein. This is a delightfully 
motley collection. One can make them say the same thing only by 
not listening to them very carefully and hearing only what one wants 
to hear. The method of selection Fromm uses achieves exactly that. Furthermore, 
the list is interesting for its omissions. It omits, for 
example, practically the whole line of great nineteenth century English 
social critics, nearly all the great writers whose basic position 
is religious, and all those who are with more or less accuracy called 
Existentialists. Of course, the list also excludes all writers who are 
fairly "optimistic" about the modern situation; these, almost 
by definition, are spokesmen for an alienated ideology. It is not hard 
to find that concurrence of opinion which Fromm finds so remarkable 
when you ignore all who hold a different opinion.   Turning from 
these problems of the use of evidence, one meets another type of difficulty 
in Fromm's analysis, which is his loose and ambiguous use 
of certain important terms. One such instance has already been presented: 
his use of alienation. The only other one I shall mention here 
is his use of the term capitalism.   For Fromm, capitalism is 
the enemy, the root of all evil. It is of course useful to have a sovereign 
cause in one's social criticism, for it makes diagnosis and 
prescription much easier than they might otherwise be.

If one characteristic distinguishes <Boris Godunov>, it is 
the consistency with which every person on the stage- including the 
chorus- comes alive in the music. Much of this lifelike quality results 
from Mussorgsky's care in basing his vocal line on natural speech 
inflections. In this he followed a path that led back to the very 
source of opera; such composers as Monteverdi, Lully and Purcell, 
with the same goal in mind, had developed styles of recitative sensitively 
attuned to their own languages. Through long experimentation 
in his songs, Mussorgsky developed a Russian recitative as different 
from others as the language itself. Giving most of his musical continuity 
to the orchestra, he lets the speech fall into place as if by coincidence, 
but controlling the pace and emphasis of the words. 
The moments of sung melody, in the usual sense, come most often when 
the character is actually supposed to be singing, as in folk songs and 
liturgical chants. Otherwise Mussorgsky reserves his vocal melodies 
for prolonged expressions of emotion- Boris' first monologue, for 
example. Even then, the flexibility of the phrasing suggests that 
the word comes first in importance.   Aside from Boris himself, 
one need but examine the secondary roles to place Mussorgsky among 
the masters of musical portraiture. Even those who appear in only one 
or two scenes are full personalities, defined with economical precision. 
Consider the four monks who figure prominently in the action: 
Pimen, Varlaam, Missail and the Jesuit Rangoni. Under no circumstances 
could we mistake one for the other; each musical setting has 
an individual touch.   Pimen is an old man, weak in body- his 
voice rarely rises to a full <forte>- but firm and clear of mind. 
His calmness offers contrast to Grigori's youthful excitement. A 
quiet but sturdy theme, somewhat folklike in character, appears whenever 
the old monk speaks of the history he is recording or of his own past 
life: @   This theme comes to represent the outer world, the 
realm of battles and banquets- seen from a distance, quite distinct 
from the quieter spiritual life in the monastery. It changes and develops 
according to the text; it introduces Pimen when he comes before 
Boris in the last act. Once he has been identified, however, a 
new melody is used to accompany his narrative, a bleak motif with barren 
octaves creating a rather ancient effect: @   An imaginative 
storyteller, Pimen takes on the character he describes, as if he 
were experiencing the old shepherd's blindness and miraculous cure. 
Here the composer uses a favorite device of his, the intensification 
of the mood through key relationships. The original ~D minor seems 
to symbolize blindness, inescapable in spite of all attempts to move 
away from it. As the child addresses the shepherd in a dream, light- 
in the form of the major mode- begins to appear, and at the moment 
of the miracle we hear a clear and shining ~D major.   Varlaam 
and Missail always appear together and often sing together, in a straightforward, 
rhythmically 
vigorous idiom that distinguishes them from 
the more subtle and well-educated Pimen. Their begging song might 
easily be a folk melody: @   The same could be said for the 
song to which they make their entrance in the final scene. Apparently 
their origin is humble, their approach to life direct and unsophisticated. 
Whatever learning they may have had in their order doesn't disturb 
them now.   Missail is the straight man, not very talkative, 
mild-mannered when he does speak. Varlaam is loud, rowdy, uninhibited 
in his pleasures and impatient with anyone who is not the same. A 
rough <ostinato> figure, heard first in the introduction to the inn 
scene, characterizes him amusingly and reappears whenever he comes into 
the action: @   The Song of Kazan, in which this figure 
becomes a wild-sounding accompaniment, fills in the picture of undisciplined 
high spirits. The phrasing is irregular, and the abrupt key 
changes have a primitive forcefulness. (We can imagine how they startled 
audiences of the 1870's.)   Varlaam's music begins to ramble 
as he feels the effects of the wine, but he pulls himself together 
when the need arises. Both monks respond to the guard's challenge 
with a few phrases of their begging song; a clever naturalistic touch 
is Varlaam's labored reading of the warrant. As the knack gradually 
comes back to him, his rhythm becomes steadier, with the rigid monotony 
of an unskilled reader. For the only time in the opera, words 
are <not> set according to their natural inflection; to do so would 
have spoiled the dramatic point of the scene.   Musically and 
dramatically, Rangoni is as far removed from the conventional monk as 
Varlaam. His music shows a sensuality coupled with an eerie quality 
that suggest somehow a blood-kinship with Dappertutto in Offenbach's 
<Hoffman>. His speech shows none of the native accent of the 
Russian characters; in spite of the Italian name, he sounds French. 
His personality appears more striking by contrast with Marina, who 
is- perhaps purposely- rather superficially characterized.

Rangoni's first entrance is a musical shock, a sudden open fifth 
in a key totally unrelated to what has preceded it. The effect is as 
if he had materialized out of nowhere. He speaks quietly, concealing 
his authority beneath a smooth humility, just as the shifting harmonies 
that accompany him all but hide the firm pedal point beneath them. 
He addresses Marina with great deference, calling her "Princess" 
at first; it is only after he has involved her emotions in his scheme 
that he uses her given name, placing himself by implication in the 
position of a solicitous father.   Curiously, this scene is a close 
parallel to one that Verdi was writing at the same time, the scene 
between Amonasro and Aida. Rangoni and Amonasro have the same 
purpose- forcing the girl to charm the man she loves into serving her 
country's cause- and their tactics are much the same. Rangoni begins 
by describing the sad state of the Church; this brings a reaction 
of distress from Marina. The music becomes ethereal as he calls 
up a vision of her own sainthood: it is she, he tells her, who can 
bring the truth to Russia and convert the heretics. As if in a trance, 
she repeats his words- then realizes, with a shock, her own audacity. 
This is no assignment for a frivolous girl, she assures him.

Now Rangoni comes to the point, and we hear, for the first time, 
a long, downward chromatic scale that will become the characteristic 
motif of his sinister power. It is a phrase as arresting as a magician's 
gesture, with a piquant turn of harmony giving an effect of strangeness. 
Another theme, sinuously chromatic, appears as he directs her 
to gain power over Grigori by any means, even at the cost of her honor. 
Coming from a priest, the music sounds as odd as the advice: 
@   Marina rebels at this suggestion. Her pride is as much at 
stake as her virtue; she is the unattainable beauty, the princess who 
turns away suitors by the dozen. Indignantly she denounces Rangoni 
for his evil thoughts and orders him to leave her.   At once the 
Jesuit pulls out all the stops. To music of a menacing darkness, 
he describes the powers of Satan gaining control of the girl, poisoning 
her soul with pride and destroying her beauty. The combined threat 
of hell-fire and ugliness is too much for her, and she falls terrified 
at his feet. With another sudden change of mood, he is again calm and 
protective, exhorting her to trust and obey him as God's spokesman- 
and the chromatic scale descends in ominous contradiction. Whatever 
the source of Rangoni's power, Marina is his captive now; we 
are reminded of this at the end of the next scene, when his theme cuts 
through the warmth of the love duet, again throwing a chill over the 
atmosphere.   The most unusual feature of <Boris>, however, 
is the use of the greatest character of all, the chorus. This is the 
real protagonist of the drama; the conflict is not Boris versus Grigori 
or Shuiski or even the ghost of the murdered child, but Boris 
versus the Russian people. Mussorgsky makes this quite clear by the 
extent to which choral scenes propel the action. Boris' first entrance 
seems almost a footnote to the splendor of the Coronation Scene, 
with its dazzling confusion of tonalities. We have a brief glimpse 
of the Tsar's public personality, the "official Boris", but our 
real focus is on the excitement of the crowd- a signigicant contrast 
with its halfhearted acclamation in the opening scene, its bitter 
resentment and fury in the final act.   One reason for the unique 
vitality of the chorus is its great variety in expression. It rarely 
speaks as a unit. Even in its most conventional appearance, the guests' 
song of praise to Marina, there are a few female dissenters criticizing 
the princess for her coldness. In many passages- for example, 
the council of boyars- each section of the chorus becomes a character 
group with a particular opinion. Hot arguments arise between 
tenors and basses, who will sing in harmony only when they agree on an 
idea.   The opening scene shows this method at its most individual. 
Mussorgsky paints a telling picture of the common people, those 
who must suffer the effects of their rulers' struggle for power without 
understanding the causes. They are held in control by force, but 
barely. They will kneel and plead for Boris' leadership in a strangely 
intense song, its phrases irregularly broken as if gasping for breath, 
but when the police with their cudgels move away, they mock and 
grumble and fight among themselves. There is a quick change from the 
plaintive song to a conversational tone. "Hey, Mityukh", asks one 
group, "what are we shouting about"? And Mityukh, apparently 
the intellectual leader of the crowd, replies that he has no notion. 
The jokes and arguments grow louder until the police return; then 
the people strike up their song with even more fervor than before, ending 
it with a wail of despair.   Mussorgsky frequently uses liturgical 
music with considerable dramatic force. In Pimen's cell the 
soft prayers of the monks, heard from offstage, not only help to set 
the scene but emphasize the contrast between young Grigori's thoughts 
and his situation. This is especially striking between Pimen's 
quiet exit and Grigori's vehement outburst against Boris. 
Again, as Boris feels himself nearing death, a procession files into 
the hall singing a hymn, its modal harmonies adding a churchly touch 
to the grim atmosphere: @ The words are hardly calculated 
to put the Tsar's mind at ease. They echo the words with which 
he has described his own vision of the dying child who "trembles and 
begs for mercy- and there is no mercy". The living as well as 
the dead now accuse him; this final reminder of his guilt is the fatal 
one.   One of the outstanding assets of the present production 
is the restoration of the St& Basil's scene, usually omitted 
from performances and rarely included in a published score. Though brief, 
it has a sharp dramatic edge and great poignancy. In addition, 
it is an important link in the plot, giving us a revealing glimpse of 
the people's attitude toward Boris and the false Dimitri. The mayhem 
in the forest of Kromy is a natural sequel.   The St& Basil's 
scene opens with little groups of beggars milling around the 
square, the ever present police keeping them under scrutiny. In the 
orchestra we hear first a hushed, hesitant <pizzicato> figure, then 
the insistent "police" motif as it appeared in the opening scene.

The service is over, and a number of people come from the church 
with their spokesman Mityukh in the lead. They bring the news that 
the Pretender has been excommunicated; this is met with scorn by 
the hearers, who claim that Mityukh is lying or drunk. (Mussorgsky cleverly 
contrasts the two groups by their orchestral accompaniment, solemn 
chords or mocking staccatos.) There is still more news, Mityukh 
announces: they have prayed for the soul of the Tsarevich. 
SO FAR THESE remarks, like most criticisms of Hardy, have tacitly 
assumed that his poetry is all of a piece, one solid mass of verse 
expressing a sensibility at a single stage of development. For critics, 
Hardy has had no poetic periods- one does not speak of early Hardy 
or late Hardy, or of the London or Max Gate period, but simply 
of Hardy, as of a poetic monolith. This seems odd when one recalls 
that he wrote poetry longer than any other major English poet: "Domicilium" 
is dated "between 1857 and 1860"; "Seeing the 
Moon Rise" is dated August, 1927. One might expect that in a poetic 
career of seventy-odd years, some changes in style and method would 
have occurred, some development taken place.   This is not, however, 
the case, and development is a term which we can apply to Hardy 
only in a very limited sense. In a time when poetic style, and poetic 
belief as well, seem in a state of continual flux, Hardy stands out 
as a poet of almost perverse consistency. Though he struggled with 
philosophy all his life, he never got much beyond the pessimism of his 
twenties; the "sober opinion" of his letter to Noyes, written 
when Hardy was eighty years old, is essentially that of his first "philosophical" 
notebook entry, made when he was twenty-five: 
"The 
world does not despise us: it only neglects us" (<Early Life,> 
p& 63). And though in his later years he revised his poems many 
times, the revisions did not alter the essential nature of the style 
which he had established before he was thirty; so that, while it usually 
is easy to recognize a poem by Hardy, it is difficult to date one.

There is only one sense in which it is valid to talk about 
Hardy's development: he did develop toward a more consistent and 
more effective control of that tone which we recognize as uniquely his. 
There is only one Hardy style, but in the earlier poems that style 
is only intermittently evident, and when it is not, the style is the 
style of another poet, or of the fashion of the time. In the later poems, 
however, the personal tone predominates. The bad early poems are 
bad Shakespeare or bad Swinburne; the bad late poems are bad 
Hardy.

There are two ways of getting at a poet's development: 
through his dated poems, and through the revisions which he made in later 
editions of his work. About a quarter of Hardy's poems carry 
an appended date line, usually the year of completion, but sometimes inclusive 
years ("1908-1910") or two separate dates when Hardy worked 
on the poem ("1905 and 1926") or an approximate date ("During 
the War"). These dates are virtually the only clues we have to 
the chronology of the poems, since the separate volumes are neither chronological 
within themselves nor in relation to each other. With the 
exception of <Satires of Circumstance,> each volume contains dated 
poems ranging over several decades (<Winter Words> spans sixty-one 
years); the internal organization rarely has any chronological order, 
except in obvious groups like the "Poems of Pilgrimage", the 
"Poems of 1912-13", and the war poems.   From the dated poems 
we can venture certain conclusions about Hardy's career in poetry, 
always remembering that conclusions based on a fraction of the whole 
must remain tentative. The dated poems suggest that while Hardy's 
concern with poetry may have been constant, his production was not. 
He had two productive periods, one in the late 1860's, the other 
in the decade from 1910 to 1920 (half of the dated poems are from the 
latter period, and these alone total about one-tenth of all Hardy's 
poems). There was one sterile period: only one poem is dated between 
1872 and 1882 and, except for the poems written on the trip to Italy 
in 1887, very few from 1882 to 1890.   The dated poems also 
give us an idea of the degree to which Hardy drew upon past productions 
for his various volumes, and therefore probably are an indication 
of the amount of poetry he was writing at the time. <Poems of the Past 
and the Present> and <Time's Laughingstocks,> both published 
while Hardy was at work on <The Dynasts,> draw heavily on poems 
written before 1900. <Satires of Circumstance> and <Moments of 
Vision,> coming during his most productive decade, are relatively self-contained; 
the former contains no poem dated before 1909-10- that 
is, no poem from a period covered by a previous volume- and the 
latter has only a few such. The last three volumes are again more dependent 
on the past, as Hardy's creative powers declined in his old 
age.   These observations about Hardy's productivity tally with 
the details of his life as we know them. The first productive period 
came when he was considering poetry as a vocation, before he had decided 
to write fiction for a living (in his note for <Who's Who> 
he wrote that he "wrote verses 1865-1868; gave up verse for prose, 
1868-70; but resumed it later"). During the poetically sterile 
years he was writing novels at the rate of almost one a year and was, 
in addition, burdened with bad health (he spent six months in bed in 1881, 
too ill to do more than work slowly and painfully at <A Laodicean>). 
Two entries in the <Early Life> support the assumption that 
during this period Hardy had virtually suspended the writing of poetry. 
Mrs& Hardy records that "**h at the end of November [1881] 
he makes a note of an intention to resume poetry as soon as possible" 
(<Early Life,> p& 188); and on Christmas Day, 1890, Hardy 
wrote: "While thinking of resuming 'the viewless wings of 
poesy' before dawn this morning, new horizons seemed to open, and worrying 
pettinesses to disappear" (<Early Life,> p& 302). There 
are more poems dated in the 1890's than in the '80's- Hardy 
had apparently resumed the viewless wings as he decreased the volume 
of his fiction- but none in 1891, the year of <Tess>, and only one 
in 1895, the year of <Jude>. After 1895 the number increases, and 
in the next thirty years there is only one year for which there is no 
dated poem- 1903, when Hardy was at work on <The Dynasts>.

The second productive period, the decade from 1910 to 1920, can 
be related to three events: the completion of <The Dynasts> in 1909, 
which left Hardy free of pressure for the first time in forty years; 
the death of Emma Hardy in 1912, which had a profound emotional 
effect on Hardy for which he found release in poetry; and the First 
World War. It may seem strange that a poet should come to full 
fruition in his seventies, but we have it on Hardy's own authority 
that "**h he was a child till he was sixteen, a youth till he was 
five-and-twenty, 
and a young man till he was nearly fifty" (<Early 
Life,> 
p& 42). We may carry this sequence one step further and say 
that at seventy he was a poet at the height of his powers, wanting only 
the impetus of two tragedies, one personal, the other national, to 
loose those powers in poetry.   Hardy's two productive decades 
were separated by forty years, yet between them he developed only in 
that he became more steadily himself- it was a narrowing, not an expanding 
process. Like a wise gardener, Hardy pruned away the Shakespearian 
sonnets and songs, and the elements of meter and poetic diction 
to which his personal style was not suited, and let the main stock 
of his talent flourish. The range of the later poetry is considerably 
narrower, but the number of successful poems is far greater.   We 
can see the general characteristics of the earlier decade if we look 
at two poems of very different qualities: "Revulsion" (1866) 
and "Neutral Tones" (1867). There is not much to be said for "Revulsion". 
Like about half of the 1860-70 poems, it is a sonnet 
on a conventional theme- the unhappiness of love. Almost anyone could 
have written it; it is competent in the sense that it makes a coherent 
statement without violating the rules of the sonnet form, but it 
is entirely undistinguished and entirely unlike Hardy. The language 
is the conventional language of the form; there is no phrase or image 
that sounds like Hardy or that is striking enough to give individuality 
to the poem. It is smoother than Hardy usually is, but with the 
smoothness of anonymity. It is obviously a young man's poem, written 
out of books and not out of experience; it asserts emotion 
without evoking it- that is to say, it is sentimental. There are many 
such competently anonymous performances among the earlier poems.

"Neutral Tones" we immediately recognize as a fine poem in 
Hardy's most characteristic style: the plain but not quite colloquial 
language, the hard, particular, colorless images, the slightly odd 
stanza-form, the dramatic handling of the occasion, the refusal to 
resolve the issue- all these we have seen in Hardy's best poems. 
The poem does not distort the syntax of ordinary speech nor draw on exotic 
sources of diction, yet it is obviously <not> ordinary speech- 
only Hardy would say "a grin of bitterness swept thereby/Like an 
ominous bird a-wing", or "wrings with wrong", or would describe 
a winter sun as "God-curst".   The details of the setting 
of "Neutral Tones" are not, strictly speaking, metaphorical, but 
they combine to create a mood which is appropriate both to a dismal 
winter day and to the end of love, and in this way love and weather, the 
emotions and the elements, symbolize each other in a way that is common 
to many of Hardy's best poems ("Weathers", "The Darkling 
Thrush", and "During Wind and Rain", for example) and to 
some moving passages in the novels as well (<Far From the Madding 
Crowd> is full of scenes constructed in this way).   "Neutral 
Tones" is an excellent example of Hardy's mature style, drawn 
from his earliest productive period; I cite it as evidence that he 
did not develop through new styles as he grew older (as Yeats did), 
but that he simply learned to use better what he already had. In the 
poem we recognize and acknowledge one man's sense of the world; if 
it is somber, it is also precise, and the precision lends authority to 
the vision. In "Revulsion", on the other hand, the pessimism is 
a case not proven; the poem offers nothing to persuade us of the speaker's 
right to speak as he does. In the 1860-70 decade there are 
many poems like "Revulsion", but there is only one "Neutral Tones". 
Hardy was not Hardy very often.   The "Poems of 1912-13" 
offer a good example of Hardy's style as it was manifested 
in the later productive decade. These are the poems Hardy wrote after 
the death of his first wife; they compose a painful elegy to what 
might have been, to a marriage that began with a promise of happiness, 
and ended in long years of suffering and hatred. Hardy obviously felt 
that these poems were peculiarly personal and private; he sometimes 
called them "an expiation", and he would not allow them to be published 
in periodicals. They are the only poems that he rearranged as 
a group between their first appearance (in <Satires of Circumstance>) 
and the publication of the <Collected Poems>.   The elegiac 
tone is Hardy's natural tone of voice, and it is not surprising 
that the 1912-13 poems are consistently and unmistakably his. The 
view is always toward the past; but the mood is not quite nostalgic- 
Hardy would not allow sentiment to soften his sense of the irredeemable 
pastness of the past, and the eternal deadness of the dead. The 
poems are, the epigraph tells us, the "traces of an ancient flame"; 
the fire of love is dead, and Hardy stands, as the speaker does 
in the last poem of the sequence, over the burnt circle of charred sticks, 
and thinks of past happiness and present grief, honest and uncomforted. 
Critically invisible, modern revolt, like X-rays and radioactivity, 
is perceived only by its effects at more materialistic social levels, 
where 
it is called delinquency.   "Disaffiliation", by the way, 
is the term used by the critic and poet, Lawrence Lipton, who has 
written several articles on this subject, the first of which, in the 
<Nation,> quoted as epigraph, "We disaffiliate **h"- John L& 
Lewis.   Like the pillars of Hercules, like two ruined Titans 
guarding the entrance to one of Dante's circles, stand two 
great dead juvenile delinquents- the heroes of the post-war generation: 
the great saxophonist, Charlie Parker, and Dylan Thomas. If 
the word deliberate means anything, both of them certainly deliberately 
destroyed themselves.   Both of them were overcome by the horror 
of the world in which they found themselves, because at last they 
could no longer overcome that world with the weapon of a purely lyrical 
art. Both of them were my friends. Living in San Francisco I saw 
them seldom enough to see them with a perspective which was not distorted 
by exasperation or fatigue. So as the years passed, I saw them 
each time in the light of an accelerated personal conflagration.

The last time I saw Bird, at Jimbo's Bob City, he was so 
gone- 
so blind to the world- that he literally sat down on me before he 
realized I was there. "What happened, man"? I said, referring 
to the pretentious "Jazz Concert". "Evil, man, evil", he 
said, and that's all he said for the rest of the night. About dawn 
he got up to blow. The rowdy crowd chilled into stillness and the fluent 
melody spiraled through it.   The last time I saw Dylan, 
his self-destruction had not just passed the limits of rationality. It 
had assumed the terrifying inertia of inanimate matter. Being with 
him was like being swept away by a torrent of falling stones. 
Now Dylan Thomas and Charlie Parker have a great deal more in common 
than the same disastrous end. As artists, they were very similar. 
They were both very fluent. But this fluent, enchanting utterance had, 
compared with important artists of the past, relatively little content. 
Neither of them got very far beyond a sort of entranced rapture 
at his own creativity. The principal theme of Thomas's poetry was 
the ambivalence of birth and death- the pain of blood-stained creation. 
Music, of course, is not so explicit an art, but anybody who knew 
Charlie Parker knows that he felt much the same way about his own 
gift. Both of them did communicate one central theme: Against the 
ruin of the world, there is only one defense- the creative act. This, 
of course, is the theme of much art- perhaps most poetry. It is 
the theme of Horace, who certainly otherwise bears little resemblance 
to Parker or Thomas. The difference is that Horace accepted his theme 
with a kind of silken assurance. To Dylan and Bird it was an agony 
and terror. I do not believe that this is due to anything especially 
frightful about their relationship to their own creativity. I believe 
rather that it is due to the catastrophic world in which that creativity 
seemed to be the sole value. Horace's column of imperishable 
verse shines quietly enough in the lucid air of Augustan Rome. Art 
may have been for him the most enduring, orderly, and noble activity 
of man. But the other activities of his life partook of these values. 
They did not actively negate them. Dylan Thomas's verse had to 
find endurance in a world of burning cities and burning Jews. He was 
able to find meaning in his art as long as it was the answer to air 
raids and gas ovens. As the world began to take on the guise of an immense 
air raid or gas oven, I believe his art became meaningless to him. 
I think all this could apply to Parker just as well, although, because 
of the nature of music, it is not demonstrable- at least not 
conclusively.   Thomas and Parker have more in common than theme, 
attitude, life pattern. In the practice of their art, there is an 
obvious technical resemblance. Contrary to popular belief, they were 
not great technical innovators. Their effects are only superficially 
startling. Thomas is a regression from the technical originality and 
ingenuity of writers like Pierre Reverdy or Apollinaire. Similarly, 
the innovations of bop, and of Parker particularly, have been vastly 
overrated by people unfamiliar with music, especially by that ignoramus, 
the intellectual jitterbug, the jazz aficionado. The tonal novelties 
consist in the introduction of a few chords used in classical music 
for centuries. And there is less rhythmic difference between progressive 
jazz, no matter how progressive, and Dixieland, than there is 
between two movements of many conventional symphonies.   What Parker 
and his contemporaries- Gillespie, Davis, Monk, Roach (Tristano 
is an anomaly), etc&- did was to absorb the musical ornamentation 
of the older jazz into the basic structure, of which it then became 
an integral part, and with which it then developed. This is true 
of the melodic line which could be put together from selected passages 
of almost anybody- Benny Carter, Johnny Hodges. It is true of 
the rhythmic pattern in which the beat shifts continuously, or at least 
is continuously sprung, so that it becomes ambiguous enough to allow 
the pattern to be dominated by the long pulsations of the phrase or 
strophe. This is exactly what happened in the transition from baroque 
to rococo music. It is the difference between Bach and Mozart.

It is not a farfetched analogy to say that this is what Thomas 
did to poetry. The special syntactical effects of a Rimbaud or an Edith 
Sitwell- actually ornaments- become the main concern. The metaphysical 
conceits, which fascinate the Reactionary Generation still 
dominant in backwater American colleges, were embroideries. Thomas's 
ellipses and ambiguities are ends in themselves. The immediate 
theme, if it exists, is incidental, and his main theme- the terror of 
birth- is simply reiterated.   This is one difference between 
Bird and Dylan which should be pointed out. Again, contrary to popular 
belief, there is nothing crazy or frantic about Parker either musically 
or emotionally. His sinuous melody is a sort of nai^ve transcendence 
of all experience. Emotionally it does not resemble Berlioz 
or Wagner; it resembles Mozart. This is true also of a painter 
like Jackson Pollock. He may have been eccentric in his behavior, 
but his paintings are as impassive as Persian tiles. Partly this difference 
is due to the nature of verbal communication. The insistent talk-aboutiveness 
of the general environment obtrudes into even the most 
idyllic poetry. It is much more a personal difference. Thomas certainly 
wanted to tell people about the ruin and disorder of the world. 
Parker and Pollock wanted to substitute a work of art for the world.

Technique pure and simple, rendition, is not of major importance, 
but it is interesting that Parker, following Lester Young, was 
one of the leaders of the so-called saxophone revolution. In modern 
jazz, the saxophone is treated as a woodwind and played with conventional 
embouchure. Metrically, Thomas's verse was extremely conventional, 
as was, incidentally, the verse of that other tragic enrage, Hart 
Crane.   I want to make clear what I consider the one technical 
development in the first wave of significant post-war arts. Ornament 
is confabulation in the interstices of structure. A poem by Dylan 
Thomas, a saxophone solo by Charles Parker, a painting by Jackson 
Pollock- these are pure confabulations as ends in themselves. Confabulation 
has come to determine structure. Uninhibited lyricism should 
be distinguished from its exact opposite- the sterile, extraneous 
invention of the corn-belt metaphysicals, or present blight of poetic 
professors.   Just as Hart Crane had little influence on anyone 
except very reactionary writers- like Allen Tate, for instance, 
to whom Valery was the last word in modern poetry and the felicities 
of an Apollinaire, let alone a Paul Eluard were nonsense- so Dylan 
Thomas's influence has been slight indeed. In fact, his only 
disciple- the only person to imitate his style- was W& S& Graham, 
who seems to have imitated him without much understanding, and 
who has since moved on to other methods. Thomas's principal influence 
lay in the communication of an attitude- that of the now extinct 
British romantic school of the New Apocalypse- Henry Treece, J& 
F& Hendry, and others- all of whom were quite conventional 
poets.   Parker certainly had much more of an influence. At one 
time it was the ambition of every saxophone player in every high school 
band in America to blow like Bird. Even before his death this influence 
had begun to ebb. In fact, the whole generation of the founding 
fathers of bop- Gillespie, Monk, Davis, Blakey, and the 
rest- 
are just now at a considerable discount. The main line of development 
today goes back to Lester Young and by-passes them.   The point 
is that many of the most impressive developments in the arts nowadays 
are aberrant, idiosyncratic. There is no longer any sense of continuing 
development of the sort that can be traced from Baudelaire to 
Eluard, or for that matter, from Hawthorne through Henry James to 
Gertrude Stein. The cubist generation before World War /1,, and, 
on a lower level, the surrealists of the period between the wars, both 
assumed an accepted universe of discourse, in which, to quote Andre 
Breton, it was possible to make definite advances, exactly as in the 
sciences. I doubt if anyone holds such ideas today. Continuity exits, 
but like the neo-swing music developed from Lester Young, it is 
a continuity sustained by popular demand.   In the plastic arts, 
a very similar situation exists. Surrealists like Hans Arp and Max 
Ernst might talk of creation by hazard- of composing pictures by 
walking on them with painted soles, or by tossing bits of paper up in 
the air. But it is obvious that they were self-deluded. Nothing looks 
anything like an Ernst or an Arp but another Ernst or Arp. Nothing 
looks less like their work than the happenings of random occasion. 
Many of the post-World War /2, abstract expressionists, apostles 
of the discipline of spontaneity and hazard, look alike, and do look 
like accidents. The aesthetic appeal of pure paint laid on at random 
may exist, but it is a very impoverished appeal. Once again what has 
happened is an all-consuming confabulation of the incidentals, the accidents 
of painting. It is curious that at its best, the work of this 
school of painting- Mark Rothko, Jackson Pollock, Clyfford Still, 
Robert Motherwell, Willem de-Kooning, and the rest- resembles 
nothing so much as the passage painting of quite unimpressive painters: 
the mother-of-pearl shimmer in the background of a Henry McFee, 
itself a formula derived from Renoir; the splashes of light and 
black which fake drapery in the fashionable imitators of Hals and Sargent. 
Often work of this sort is presented as calligraphy- the pure 
utterance of the brush stroke seeking only absolute painteresque values. 
You have only to compare such painting with the work of, say, 
Sesshu, to realize that someone is using words and brushes carelessly.

At its best the abstract expressionists achieve a simple rococo 
decorative surface. Its poverty shows up immediately when compared 
with Tiepolo, where the rococo rises to painting of extraordinary profundity 
and power. A Tiepolo painting, however confabulated, is a 
universe of tensions in vast depths. A Pollock is an object of art- 
bijouterie- disguised only by its great size. In fact, once the size 
is big enough to cover a whole wall, it turns into nothing more than 
extremely expensive wallpaper. Now there is nothing wrong with complicated 
wallpaper. There is just more to Tiepolo. The great Ashikaga 
brush painters painted wallpapers, too- at least portable ones, 
screens.   A process of elimination which leaves the artist with 
nothing but the play of his materials themselves cannot sustain interest 
in either artist or public for very long. So, in the last couple 
of years, abstract expressionism has tended toward romantic suggestion- 
indications of landscape or living figures.

ANGLO-SAXON and Greek epic each provide on two occasions 
a seemingly authentic account of the narration of verse in the heroic 
age. Hrothgar's court bard sings of the encounters at Finnsburg (lines 
1068-1159), and improvises the tale of Beowulf's exploits in 
a complimentary comparison of the Geatish visitor with Sigemund (lines 
871-892); Alcinou^s' court bard sings of the discovered adultery 
of Ares and Aphrodite (<Odyssey> /8,.266-366), and takes up 
a tale of Odysseus while the Ithacan wanderer listens on (<Odyssey> 
/8,.499-520). Nothing in all this is autobiographical: unlike 
the poets of <Deor> and <Widsith>, the poet of <Beowulf> is 
not concerned with his own identity; the poet of the <Odyssey>, 
reputed blind, reveals himself not at all in singing of the blind minstrel 
Demodocus. Since none of these glimpses of poetizing without writing 
is intended to incorporate a signature into the epic matter, there 
is prima-facie evidence that <Beowulf> and the Homeric poems each 
derive from an oral tradition. That such a tradition lies behind 
the <Iliad> and the <Odyssey>, at least, is hard to deny. Milman 
Parry rigorously defended the observation that the extant Homeric 
poems are largely formulaic, and was led to postulate that they could 
be shown entirely formulaic if the complete corpus of Greek epic survived; 
he further reasoned that frequent formulas in epic verse indicate 
oral composition, and assumed the slightly less likely corollary 
that oral epic is inclined towards the use of formulas. Proceeding from 
Parry's conclusions and adopting one of his schemata, Francis P& 
Magoun, Jr&, argues that <Beowulf> likewise was created from 
a legacy of oral formulas inherited and extended by bards of successive 
generations, and the thesis is striking and compelling. Yet a fresh 
inspection will indicate one crucial amendment: <Beowulf> and 
the Homeric poems are not at all formulaic to the same extent.

The bondage endurable by an oral poet is to be estimated only by a 
very skilful oral poet, but it appears safe to assume that no sustained 
narrative in rhyme could be composed without extreme difficulty, even 
in a language of many terminal inflections. Assonance seems nearly 
as severe a curb, although in a celebrated passage William of Malmesbury 
declares that a <Song of Roland> was intoned before the battle 
commenced at Hastings. The Anglo-Saxon alliterative line and the 
Homeric hexameter probably imposed less of a restraint; the verse 
of <Beowulf> or of the <Iliad> and the <Odyssey> was not easy 
to create but was not impossible for poets who had developed their talents 
perforce in earning a livelihood. Yet certain aids were valuable 
and quite credibly necessary for reciting long stretches of verse without 
a pause. The poet in a written tradition who generally never blots 
a line may once in a while pause and polish without incurring blame. 
But the oral poet cannot pause; he must improvise continuously 
with no apparent effort. Even though the bondage of his verse is not 
so great as the writing poet can manage, it is still great enough for 
him often to be seriously impeded unless he has aids to facilitate rapid 
composition. The Germanic poet had such aids in the kennings, which 
provided for the difficulties of alliteration; the Homeric poet 
had epithets, which provided for recurring needs in the hexameter. Either 
poet could quickly and easily select words or phrases to supply 
his immediate requirements as he chanted out his lines, because the kennings 
and the epithets made possible the construction of systems of numerous 
synonyms for the chief common and proper nouns. Other synonyms 
could of course serve the same function, and for the sake of ease I 
shall speak of kennings and epithets in the widest and loosest poss1ble 
sense, and name, for example, <Gar-Dene> a kenning for the Danes. 
Verbal and adverbial elements too participated in each epic diction, 
but it is for the present sufficient to mark the large nominal and 
adjectival supply of semantic near-equivalents, and to designate the 
members of any system of equivalents as basic formulas of the poetic 
language. Limited to a few thousand lines of heroic verse in Anglo-Saxon 
as in the other Germanic dialects, we cannot say how frequently 
the kennings in <Beowulf> recurred in contemporary epic on the same 
soil. But we can say that since a writing poet, with leisure before 
him, would seem unlikely to invent a technique based upon frequent and 
substantial circumlocution, the kennings like the epithets must reasonably 
be ascribed to an oral tradition.   One of the greatest 
Homerists of our time, Frederick M& Combellack, argues that when 
it is assumed the <Iliad> and the <Odyssey> are oral poems, the 
postulated single redactor called Homer cannot be either credited with 
or denied originality in choice of phrasing. Any example of grand 
or exquisite diction may have been created by the poet who compiled numerous 
lays into the two works we possess or may be due to one of his 
completely 
unknown fellow-craftsmen. The quest of the historical Homer 
is likely never to have further success; no individual word in the 
<Iliad> or the <Odyssey> can be credited to any one man; no strikingly 
effective element of speech in the extant poems can with assurance 
be said not to have been a commonplace in the vaster epic corpus 
that may have existed at the beginning of the first millennium before 
Christ. This observation is of interest not only to students of Homeric 
poetry but to students of Anglo-Saxon poetry as well. To the 
extent that a tale is twice told, its final author must be suspect, although 
plagiarism in an oral tradition is less a misdemeanor than the 
standard <modus dicendi>.   Combellack argues further, and here 
he makes his main point, that once the <Iliad> and the <Odyssey> 
are thought formulaic poems composed for an audience accustomed to 
formulaic poetry, Homeric critics are deprived of an entire domain they 
previously found arable. With a few important and a few more unimportant 
exceptions, no expression can be deemed <le mot juste> for its 
context, because each was very probably the only expression that long-established 
practice and ease of rapid recitation would allow. Words 
or phrases that connoisseurs have admired as handsome or ironic or 
humorous must therefore lose merit and become regarded as mere inevitable 
time-servers, sometimes accurate and sometimes not. This observation 
too may have reference to Anglo-Saxon poetry. To the extent that 
a language is formulaic, its individual components must be regarded 
as no more distinguished than other cliches.   W& F& Bryan 
suggests that certain kennings in <Beowulf> were selected sometimes 
for appropriateness and sometimes for ironic inappropriateness, but 
such a view would appear untenable unless it is denied that the language 
of <Beowulf> is formulaic. If the master of scops who was most 
responsible for the poem ever used kennings that were traditional, he 
was at least partly deprived of free will and not inclined towards shrewd 
and sophisticated misuse of speech elements. Once many significant 
phrases are found in theory or in recurrent practice to provide for 
prosodic necessity, they are not to be defended for their semantic properties 
in isolated contexts. It is false to be certain of having discovered 
in the language of <Beowulf> such effects as intentional irony.

Yet, if the argument is turned awry, there may be found a 
great deal in Bryan's view, after all. A formulaic element need not 
be held meaningless merely because it was selected with little conscious 
reflection. Time-servers though the periphrastic expressions are, 
they may nevertheless be handsome or ironic or humorous. A long evolution 
in an oral tradition caused the poetic language of the heroic 
age to be based upon formulas that show the important qualities of things, 
and these formulas are therefore potentially rather than always actually 
accurate. True, we do not know how they were regarded in their 
day, but we need not believe the epic audience to have been more insensitive 
to the formulas than the numerous scholars of modern times who 
have read Germanic or Homeric poetry all their lives and still found 
much to admire in occasional occurrences of the most familiar phrases. 
Nouns and adjectives in a written tradition are chosen for the nonce; 
in an oral tradition they may be chosen for the entire epic corpus, 
and tend towards idealization rather than distinctive delineation. 
Reliance is therefore not to be placed upon the archaeological particulars 
in an oral poem; no-one today would hope to discover the unmistakable 
ruins of Heorot or the palace of Priam. A ship at dry-dock 
could be called a foamy-necked floater in Anglo-Saxon or a swift 
ship in Greek. Even when defenseless of weapons the Danes would be 
<Gar-Dene> (as their king is Hrothgar) and Priam would be |e|u|m|m|e|l|i|h|s. 
Achilles, like Siegfried in the <Nibelungenlied>, 
is potentially the swiftest of men and may accordingly 
be called swift-footed even when he stands idle. In <Coriolanus> 
the agnomen of Marcius is used deliberately and pointedly, but the 
Homeric epithets and the Anglo-Saxon kennings are used casually and 
recall to the hearer "a familiar story or situation or a useful or 
pleasant quality of the referent". The epic language was not entirely 
the servant of the poet; it was partly his master. The poet's 
intentions are difficult to discern and, except to biographers, unimportant; 
the language, however, is a proper object of scrutiny, and the 
effects of the language are palpable even if sometimes inevitable.

<Beowulf> and the Homeric poems appear oral compositions. Yet 
they are written; at some stage in their evolution they were transcribed. 
Albert B& Lord suggests that the Homeric poems were dictated 
to a scribe by a minstrel who held in his mind the poems fully matured 
but did not himself possess the knowledge of writing since it 
would 
be useless to his guild, and Magoun argues that the <Beowulf> 
poet and Cynewulf may have dictated their verse in the same fashion. 
This explanation is attractive, but is vitiated at least in part by 
the observation that Cynewulf, though he used kennings in the traditional 
manner, was a literate man who four times inscribed his name by runes 
into his works. If Cynewulf was literate, the <Beowulf> poet 
may have been also, and so may the final redactor of the <Iliad> and 
the <Odyssey>. In lieu of the amanuensis to the blind or illiterate 
bard, one may conceive of a man who heard a vast store of oral poetry 
recited, and became intimately familiar with the established aids 
to poetizing, and himself wrote his own compositions or his edition of 
the compositions of the past. Other theories of origin are compatible 
with the formulaic theory: <Beowulf> may contain a design for 
terror, and the <Iliad> may have a vast hysteron-proteron pattern answering 
to a ceramic pattern produced during the Geometric Period in 
pottery. The account of the growth and final transcription of these 
epics rests partly, however, upon the degree to which they were formulaic.

Carl Eduard Schmidt counted 1804 different lines repeated 
exactly in the two Homeric poems, and by increasing this figure so 
as to include lines repeated with very slight modifications he counted 
2118 different lines used a total of 5612 times. Thus one line in 
five from the <Iliad> and the <Odyssey> is to be found somewhere 
else in the two poems. The ratio is thoroughly remarkable, because the 
lines are so long- half again as long as those of <Beowulf>. Anglo-Saxon 
poetry appears to have no comparable amount of repetition; 
there is no reason to think that the scop used and re-used whole lines 
and even lengthy passages after the manner of his Homeric colleague. 
In determining the extent to which any poem is formulaic it is idle, 
however, to inspect nothing besides lines repeated in their entirety, 
for a stock of line-fragments would be sufficient to permit the poet 
to extemporize with deftness if they provided for prosodic needs. 
The closest scrutiny is owed to the Anglo-Saxon kennings and the Homeric 
epithets; if any words or phrases are formulaic, they will be.

The <Iliad> has two words for the shield, |a|s|p|i|s 
and |s|a|k|o|s. 
RECENT CRITICISM OF <Great Expectations> has tended to emphasize 
its symbolic and mythic content, to show, as M& D& Zabel has 
said of Dickens generally, that much of the novel's impact resides 
in its "allegoric insight and moral metaphor". J& H& Miller's 
excellent chapter on <Great Expectations> has lately illustrated 
how fruitfully that novel can be read from such a perspective. 
In his analysis, however, he touches upon but fails to explore an idea, 
generally neglected in discussions of the book, which I believe is 
central to its art- the importance of human hands as a recurring feature 
of the narrative. This essay seeks to make that exploration.

Dickens was not for nothing the most theatrical of the great Victorian 
writers. He knew instinctively that next to voice and face an 
actor's hands are his most useful possession- that in fiction as 
in the theatre, gesture is an indispensable shorthand for individualizing 
character and dramatizing action and response. It is hardly accidental, 
therefore, that many of his most vivid figures do suggestive or 
eccentric things with their hands. In <Great Expectations> the hands 
become almost an obsession. Mr& Jaggers habitually bites his 
forefinger, 
a gesture which conveys both contempt and the inscrutable abstractedness 
that half fascinates, half terrifies all who have dealings with him. 
Miss Havisham's withered hands, heavy as if her unhappiness were 
somehow concentrated in them, move in restless self-pity between her 
broken heart and her walking stick. Pumblechook's "signature" 
is the perpetually extended glad hand. Wemmick reveals his self-satisfaction 
by regularly rubbing his hands together. Old Mr& Pocket's 
frantic response to life imprisonment with a useless, social-climbing 
wife is to "put his two hands into his disturbed hair" and "make 
an extraordinary effort to lift himself up by it", (23) whereas 
Joe Gargery endures the shrewish onslaughts of Mrs& Joe by apologetically 
drawing "the back of his hand across and across his nose". 
(7)   Such mannerisms would be less worthy of remark, were it 
not that in <Great Expectations>, as in no other of Dickens' novels, 
hands serve as a <leitmotif> of plot and theme- a kind of unifying 
symbol or natural metaphor for the book's complex of human interrelationships 
and the values and attitudes that motivate them. Dickens 
not only reveals character through gesture, he makes hands a crucial 
element of the plot, a means of clarifying the structure of the novel 
by helping to define the hero's relations with all the major characters, 
and a device for ordering such diverse themes as guilt, pursuit, 
crime, greed, education, materialism, enslavement (by both people 
and institutions), friendship, romantic love, forgiveness, and redemption. 
We have only to think of Lady Macbeth or the policeman-murderer 
in Thomas Burke's famous story, "The Hands of Mr& Ottermole", 
to realize that hands often call up ideas of crime and punishment. 
So it is with <Great Expectations>, whether the hands be 
Orlick's 
as he strikes down Mrs& Gargery or Pip's as he steals a 
pie from her pantry. Such associations suit well with the gothic or 
mystery-story aspects of Dickens' novel, but, on a deeper plane, they 
relate to the themes of sin, guilt, and pursuit that have recently 
been analyzed by other critics.   The novel opens with a fugitive 
convict frantically trying to avoid the nemesis of being "laid hands 
on"- (3) a mysterious figure who looks into Pip's frightened 
eyes in the churchyard "as if he were eluding the hands of the dead 
people, stretching up cautiously out of their graves, to get a twist 
upon his ankle and pull him in". (1) Magwitch terrifies Pip into 
stealing a pork pie for him by creating the image in the boy's imagination 
of a bogy man who may "softly creep **h his way to him and tear 
him open", (1) "imbruing his hands" (2) in him. As Pip agonizes 
over the theft that his own hands have committed, his guilty conscience 
projects itself upon the wooden finger of a local signpost, transforming 
it into "a phantom devoting me to the Hulks". (3) Held 
upside down in the graveyard, Pip clings in terror "with both hands" 
(1) to his convict; later he flees in panic from the family table 
just as his theft is about to be discovered and is blocked at the 
front door by a soldier who accusingly holds out a pair of handcuffs which 
he has brought to Gargery's forge for mending. Through such details 
Dickens indicates at the outset that guilt is a part of the ironic 
bond between Pip and Magwitch which is so unpredictably to alter 
both their lives.   Since they commonly translate thoughts and 
feelings into deeds, hands naturally represent action, and since nearly 
half the characters in <Great Expectations> are of the underworld 
or closely allied to it, the linking of hands with crime or violence 
is not to be wondered at. Dickens, for excellent psychological reasons, 
never fully reveals Magwitch's felonious past, but Pip, at the 
convict's climactic reappearance in London, shrinks from clasping 
a hand which he fears "might be stained with blood". (39) Orlick 
slouches about the forge "like Cain" with "his hands in his pockets", 
(15) and when he shouts abuse at Mrs& Joe for objecting 
to his holiday, she claps her hands in a tantrum, beats them "upon her 
bosom and upon her knees", (15) and clenches them in her husband's 
hair. This last "rampage" is only the prelude to the vicious 
blow upon her head, "dealt by some unknown hand" (15) whose identity 
is later revealed not verbally but through a manual action- the tracing 
of Orlick's hammer upon a slate. Pip himself is to feel the 
terror of Orlick's "murderous hand" (53) in his secret rendezvous 
at the sluicehouse on the marshes. Dickens lays great emphasis on 
the hands in this scene. Orlick shakes his hand at Pip, bangs the table 
with his fist, draws his unclenched hand "across his mouth as if 
his mouth watered" for his victim, lets his hands hang "loose and 
heavy at his sides", and Pip observes him so intensely that he knows 
"of the slightest action of his fingers". (53) Orlick might almost 
be Magwitch's bogy man come alive, a figure of nemesis from Pip's 
phantasy of guilt.   The scarred, disfigured wrists of Mr& 
Jaggers' housekeeper are the tell-tale marks of her sinister 
past, for her master, coolly exhibiting them to his dinner guests, makes 
a point of the "force of grip there is in these hands". (26) Jaggers' 
iron control over her ("**h she would remove her hands from 
any dish she put before him, hesitatingly, as if she dreaded his calling 
her back **h".) (26) rests on his having once got her acquitted 
of a murder charge by cleverly contriving her sleeves at the trial to 
conceal her strength and by passing off the lacerations on the backs 
of her hands as the scratches of brambles rather than of human fingernails. 
It is the similarity between Estella's hands and Molly's 
("The action of her fingers was like the action of knitting") (48) 
that provides Pip with a vital clue to the real identity of both and 
establishes a symbolic connection between the underworld of crime and 
the genteel cruelty of Satis House. Finally, Magwitch's pursuit 
of Compeyson, his archenemy and betrayer, begins by his holding him 
in a vicelike grip on the river flats to frustrate his escape and culminates 
in his "laying his hand on his cloak to identify him", (54) 
thus precipitating the death-locked struggle in the water during which 
Compeyson drowns. Magwitch's hand here ironically becomes the agent 
of justice.   But only in one of its aspects is <Great Expectations> 
a tale of violence, revenge, and retribution. Money, so 
important a theme elsewhere in Dickens, is here central, and hands are 
often associated in some way with the false values- acquisitiveness, 
snobbery, self-interest, hypocrisy, toadyism, irresponsibility, injustice- 
that attach to a society based upon the pursuit of wealth. 
Dickens suggests 
the economic evils of such a society on the first page 
of his novel in the description of Pip's five little dead brothers 
"who gave up trying to get a living exceedingly early in that universal 
struggle", who seemed to have "all been born on their backs 
with their hands in their trousers-pockets, and had never taken them 
out 
in this state of existence". (1) Pip's great expectations, his 
progress through illusion and disillusionment, turn, somewhat as they 
do for the naive hero of Dreiser's <American Tragedy>, upon 
the 
lure of genteel prosperity through unearned income- what Wemmick calls 
"portable property" and what Jaggers reproaches Pip for letting 
"slip through [his] fingers". (55)   Since a gentleman 
must, if possible, avoid sullying them by work, his hands, as importantly 
as his accent, become the index of social status. Almost the first 
step in the corruption of Pip's values is the unworthy shame he 
feels when Estella cruelly remarks the coarseness of his hands: "They 
had never troubled me before, but they troubled me now, as vulgar 
appendages". (8) Pip imagines how Estella would look down upon 
Joe's hands, roughened by work in the smithy, and the deliberate contrast 
between her white hands and his blackened ones is made to symbolize 
the opposition of values between which Pip struggles- idleness 
and work, artificiality and naturalness, gentility and commonness, coldness 
and affection- in fact, between Satis House and the forge. 
When the snobbery that alienates Pip from Joe finally gives way before 
the deeper and stronger force of love, the reunion is marked by an 
embarrassed handshake at which Pip exclaims "No, don't wipe it 
off- for God's sake, give me your blackened hand"! (35)

Pip's abject leave-taking of Miss Havisham, during which he kneels 
to kiss her hand, signalizes his homage to a supposed patroness who 
seems to be opening up for him a new world of glamour; when, on the 
journey to London that immediately follows, he pauses nostalgically 
to lay his hand upon the finger-post at the end of the village, the wooden 
pointer symbolically designates a spiritual frontier between innocence 
and the corruption of worldly vanity. Incidentally, one cannot 
miss the significance of this gesture, for Dickens reintroduces it associatively 
in Pip's mind at another moral and psychological crisis- 
his painful recognition, in a talk with Herbert Pocket, that his 
hopeless attachment to Estella is as self-destructive as it is romantic. 
In both cases the finger-post represents Pip's heightened awareness 
of contrary magnetisms.   A variety of hand movements helps 
dramatize the moral climate of the fallen world Pip encounters beyond 
the forge. The vulturelike attendance of the Pocket family upon 
Miss Havisham is summed up in the hypocritical gestures of Miss Camilla 
Pocket, who puts her hand to her throat in a feigned spasm of 
grief-stricken choking, then lays it "upon her heaving bosom" with 
"an unnatural fortitude of manner", (11) and finally kisses it to 
Miss Havisham in a parody of the lady's own mannerism toward Estella. 
Pumblechook's hands throughout the novel serve to travesty greed 
and hypocritical self-aggrandizement. We first see him shaking Mrs& 
Joe's hand on discovering the sizable amount of the premium paid 
to her husband for Pip's indenture as an apprentice and later pumping 
Pip's hands "for the hundredth time at least" ("May I- 
<may> I-"?) (19) in effusive congratulation to Pip on 
his expectations. We take leave of Pumblechook as he gloats over Pip's 
loss of fortune, extending his hand "with a magnificently forgiving 
air" and exhibiting "the same fat five fingers", one of which 
he identifies with "the finger of Providence" and shakes at Pip 
in a canting imputation of the latter's <"ingratitoode"> and 
his own generosity as Pip's <"earliest benefactor">. (58)

Pip first learns "the stupendous power of money" from the 
sycophantic tailor, Mr& Trabb, whose brutality to his boy helper exactly 
matches 
the financial resource of each new customer, and whose fawning 
hands touch "the outside of each elbow" (19) and "rub" 
Pip out of the shop. The respectability which money confers implies 
a different etiquette, and, upon taking up the life of a London gentleman, 
Pip must learn from Herbert Pocket that "the spoon is not generally 
used over-hand, but under". 
The following items may be specified in actual or symbolic form in the 
operands of those instructions which refer to the particular items: 
channel, unit, combined channel and unit, combined arm and file, unit 
record synchronizers, inquiry synchronizers, and alteration switches. 
The declarative operation ~EQU is used to equate symbolic names 
to item numbers (see page 85). _CONTINUATION CARDS_ Certain Autocoder 
statements make provision for more parameters than may be contained 
in the operand (columns 21-75) of a single line on the Autocoder 
coding sheet. When this is the case, the appropriate section of this 
manual will indicate that "Continuation Cards" may be used. Thus, 
when specifically permitted, the operand of a given line on the Autocoder 
coding sheet may be continued in the operand of from one to 
four additional lines which immediately follow.   The label and 
operation columns must be blank and the continuation of the operand 
must begin in column 21; i&e&, it must be left-justified in the 
operand column of the coding sheet. The operand need not extend across 
the entire operand column of either the header card or continuation 
cards but may end with the comma following any parameter. Remarks may 
appear to the right of the last parameter on each card provided they 
are separated from the operand by at least two blank spaces.   Illustration 
of the use of continuation cards are included throughout the 
examples illustrating the various statements.   If a continuation 
card follows a statement that does not permit continuation cards, 
the compiler will generate a ~NOP and issue an error message. Additional 
restrictions regarding the use of continuation cards with macro-instructions 
appear on page 106. 

#RESERVATION OF INDEX WORDS AND 
ELECTRONIC SWITCHES#

The assignment of actual addresses to symbolic 
index word and electronic switch names occurs in Phase /3, of the 
Autocoder processor. The initial availability of index words and electronic 
switches is determined by a table which is included in the Compiler 
Systems Tape. This table originally indicates that index words 
1 through 96 and electronic switches 1 through 30 are available for 
assignment to symbolic references; index words 97 through 99 are 
not available. The initial setting of this table may be altered, however, 
as described in the 7070/7074 Data Processing System Bulletin 
"~IBM 7070/7074 Compiler System: Operating Procedure", 
form ~J28-6105.   During the first pass of Phase /3,, references 
to the <actual> addresses of index words and electronic switches 
are collected and the availability table is updated. At the end 
of this pass, the table indicates which index words and electronic switches 
are not available for assignment to symbolic references. 
Both index words and electronic switches may have been made unavailable 
before the start of assignment in one of the following ways: _1._ 
The initial setting of the availability table indicated that the 
index word or electronic switch was not available for assignment. _2._ 
The one- two-digit number of the index word or electronic switch 
was used in the operand of a symbolic machine instruction to specify 
indexing or as a parameter which is <always> an index word or electronic 
switch, e&g&, @ _3._ The one- or two-digit number of 
the index word or electronic switch was used in the operand of an ~EQU 
statement, e&g&, @   When the index words or electronic 
switches are reserved because of actual usage in the statements 
described above, the position or order of the statements within the program 
is not important; any such reference will make the index word 
or electronic switch unavailable at the end of this pass.   During 
the assignment pass of Phase /3,, index words and electronic switches 
are reserved as they are encountered during assignment. Index 
words and electronic switches may be reserved in the following ways. 
The first two methods apply to both index words and electronic switches; 
the third applies only to index words. _1._ During the assignment 
pass, each instruction is examined for reference to the symbolic 
name of an index word or electronic switch. When such a reference 
is found, an actual address is assigned and the availability table is 
changed so that the assigned index word or switch is no longer available 
for later assignment. _2._ If the one- or two-digit address of 
an index word or electronic switch is used or is included in the operand 
of an ~XRESERVE or ~SRESERVE statement (see page 
99), the corresponding index word or electronic switch is reserved. 
_3._ If a statement has been assigned an address in the index word 
area _A._ by means of an actual label or _B._ by means of an 
ORIGIN statement which refers to an <actual address> the 
corresponding index word will be reserved. These entries should normally 
appear at the beginning of the program or immediately following each 
~LITORIGIN statement. Otherwise, symbolic names may have 
previously been assigned to these same index words. (This method does 
not apply to electronic switches.)   The preceding methods allow 
efficient use of index words and electronic switches during a sectionalized 
or multi-phase program, particularly when used in conjunction 
with the ~LITORIGIN statement. Extreme caution should 
be used, however, to avoid the conflicting usage of an index word or electronic 
switch which may result from the assignment of more than one 
name or function to the same address.   If the symbolic name or 
actual address of an index word or electronic switch appears or is included 
in the operand of an ~XRELEASE or ~SRELEASE 
statement (see page 101), the specified index word or electronic switch 
will again be made available, regardless of the method by which it 
was reserved. It will not, however, be used for symbolic assignment until 
all other index words or electronic switches have been assigned for 
the first time.   If, at any time during the assignment pass, 
the compiler finds that there are no more index words available for assignment, 
the warning message "NO MORE INDEX WORDS AVAILABLE" 
will be placed in the object program listing, the table will be altered 
to show that index words 1 through 96 are available, and the assignment 
will continue as before. If the compiler finds that there are 
no more electronic switches available for assignment, the warning message 
"NO MORE ELECTRONIC SWITCHES AVAILABLE" will be placed in 
the object program listing, the table will be altered to show that electronic 
switches 1 through 30 are available, and assignment will continue 
as before. The resultant conflicting usage of index words or electronic 
switches may be avoided by reducing the number of symbolic names 
used, e&g&, through the proper use of the ~EQU, ~XRELEASE, 
or ~SRELEASE statements.   As noted in Appendix 
~C, index words 97 through 99 are <never> available for assignment 
to symbolic names by the compiler; also, index words 93 through 
96 may have been made unavailable for assignment. 

#DECLARATIVE 
STATEMENTS#

Autocoder declarative statements provide the processor 
with the necessary information to complete the imperative operations 
properly. Declarative statements are never executed in the object program 
and should be separated from the program instruction area, placed 
preferably at its beginning or end. Otherwise, special care must be 
taken to branch around them so that the program will not attempt to execute 
something in a data area as an instruction. If the compiler does 
encounter such statements, a warning message will be issued. 7070/7074 
Autocoder includes the following declarative statements: ~DA 
(Define Area), ~DC (Define Constant), ~DRDW (Define Record 
Definition Word), ~DSW (Define Switch), ~DLINE 
(Define Line), ~EQU (Equate), CODE, ~DTF (Define 
Tape File), ~DIOCS (Define Input/Output Control System), 
and ~DUF (Descriptive Entry for Unit Records). ~DA, ~DC, 
~DTF, and ~DLINE require more than one entry.

The ~DA statement is used to name and define the positions and 
length of fields within an area. The ~DC statement is used to name 
and enter constants into the object program. Since the 7070 and 7074 
make use of record definition words (~RDWS) to read, write, move, 
and otherwise examine blocks of storage, the ~DA and ~DC statements 
provide the option of generating ~RDWS automatically. 
When so instructed, Autocoder will generate one or more ~RDWS 
and assign them successive locations immediately preceding the area(s) 
with which they are to be associated. An ~RDW will be of the 
form **f, where ~xxxx is the starting location of the area and ~yyyy 
is its ending location. These addresses are calculated automatically 
by the processor.   In some cases, it may be more advantageous 
to assign locations to ~RDWS associated with ~DA and ~DC 
areas in some other part of storage, i&e&, not immediately preceding 
the ~DA or ~DC areas. The ~DRDW statement may be 
used for this purpose. The ~DRDW statement may also be used to 
generate an ~RDW defining <any> area specified by the programmer.

As many as ten digital switches may be named and provided 
by the ~DSW statement for consideration by the ~SETSW and 
LOGIC macro-instructions. Each switch occupies one digit position 
in a word, can be set ON or OFF, and is considered 
as logically equivalent to an electronic switch. It cannot, however, 
be referred to by electronic switch commands, e&g&, ~ESN, ~BSN, 
etc&. An individual switch or the entire set of switches in 
a word may be tested or altered as desired.   Through use of 
the ~DLINE statement, a means is provided for specifying both 
the editing of fields to be inserted in a print line area and the layout 
of the area itself. The area may include constant information supplied 
by the programmer. The area may also be provided with additional 
data during the running of the object program by means of ~EDMOV 
or MOVE macro-instructions.   The declarative statement 
~EQU permits the programmer to equate symbolic names to actual 
index words, electronic switches, arm and file numbers, tape channel 
and unit numbers, alteration switches, etc&, and to equate a symbol 
to another symbol or to an actual address.   The ~DIOCS, 
~DTF, and ~DUF statements are used when required by the Input/Output 
Control System. ~DIOCS is used to select the major 
methods of processing to be used, and to name the index words used 
by ~IOCS. Each tape file must be described by Tape File Specifications, 
produced by ~DTFS. In addition to information related 
to the file and its records, the File Specifications contain subroutine 
locations and the location of tape label information. A ~DUF 
entry must be supplied for every unit record file describing the type 
of file and the unit record equipment to be used. The ~DUF also 
supplies the locations of subroutines written by the user that are 
unique to the file.   A full description of the ~DIOCS, 
~DTF, and ~DUF statements is contained in the 7070 Data Processing 
system Bulletin "~IBM 7070 Input/Output Control System", 
form ~J28-6033-1. Brief descriptions of these three declarative 
statements and detailed descriptions of the formats and functions 
of each of the other 7070/7074 Autocoder declarative statements follow 
below. _~DIOCS- DEFINE INPUT/OUTPUT CONTROL SYSTEM_ When 
the Input/Output Control System is to be used in a program, a 
~DIOCS statement must be used to select the major methods of processing 
to be used. This statement also allows the naming of the index 
words used by ~IOCS. _SOURCE PROGRAM FORMAT_ The basic 
format of the ~DIOCS statement is as follows: @ ANYLABEL 
is any symbolic label; it may be omitted. The entry ~DIOCS 
must be written exactly as shown.   The first item in the 
operand, ~IOCSIXF, is used to specify the first ~IOCS index 
word for programs using tape files. This item may be a symbolic 
name or an actual one-digit or two-digit index word address in the range 
3-94. If the first item in the operand is omitted, the symbolic name 
~IOCSIXF will be assigned. When an actual index word or a 
symbolic address is specified, Autocoder will equate the name ~IOCSIXF 
to it.   The second item in the operand, ~IOCSIXG, 
is used to specify the second ~IOCS index word for programs 
using tape files. This item may be a symbolic name or an actual one-digit 
or two-digit index word address in the range 3-94. If the second 
item in the operand is omitted, the symbolic name ~IOCSIXG 
will be assigned. When an actual index word or a symbolic address 
is specified, Autocoder will equate ~IOCSIXG to it.

In the midwest, oxidation ponds are used extensively for the treatment 
of domestic sewage from suburban areas. The high cost of land 
and a few operational problems resulting from excessive loadings have 
created the need for a wastewater treatment system with the operational 
characteristics of the oxidation pond but with the ability to treat 
more organic matter per unit volume.   Research at Fayette, Missouri 
on oxidation ponds has shown that the ~BOD in the treated 
effluent varied from 30 to 53 ~mg/~l with loadings from 8 to 
120 ~lb ~BOD/day/acre. Since experience indicates that effluents 
from oxidation ponds do not create major problems at these ~BOD 
concentrations, the goal for the effluent quality of the accelerated 
treatment system was the same as from conventional oxidation ponds. 
Recent studies by Weston and Stack had indicated that a turbine 
aerator could be added to an oxidation pond to increase the rate of oxygen 
transfer. Their study showed that it was possible to transfer 3 
to 4 ~lb of oxygen/~hr/~hp.   O'Connor and Eckenfelder 
discussed the use of aerated lagoons for treating organic wastes. 
They indicated that a 4-day retention, aerated lagoon would give 60 
to 76 per cent ~BOD reduction. Later, Eckenfelder increased 
the efficiency of treatment to between 75 and 85 per cent in the summer 
months. It appeared from the limited information available that the 
aerated lagoon might offer a satisfactory means of increasing the capacity 
of existing oxidation ponds as well as providing the same degree 
of treatment in a smaller volume. 

#RED BRIDGE SUBDIVISION#

With 
the development of the Red Bridge Subdivision south of Kansas City, 
Missouri, the developer was faced with the problem of providing adequate 
sewage disposal. The sewage system from Kansas City was not 
expected to serve the Red Bridge area for several years. This necessitated 
the construction of temporary sewage treatment facilities with 
an expected life from 5 to 15 ~yr. For the initial development an 
oxidation pond was constructed as shown in Figure 1. The oxidation pond 
has a surface area of 4.77 acres and a depth of 4 ~ft. The pond 
is currently serving 1,230 persons or 260 persons per acre. In the summer 
of 1960 the oxidation pond became completely septic and emitted 
obnoxious odors. It was possible to maintain aerobic conditions in the 
pond by regular additions of sodium nitrate until the temperature decreased 
and the algae population changed from blue-green to green algae.

The anaerobic conditions in the existing oxidation pond 
necessitated examination of other methods for supplying additional oxygen 
than by sodium nitrate. At the same time further expansion in the 
Red Bridge Subdivision required the construction of additional sewage 
treatment facilities. The large land areas required for oxidation 
ponds made this type of treatment financially unattractive to the developer. 
It was proposed that aerated lagoons be used to eliminate the 
problem at the existing oxidation ponds and to provide the necessary 
treatment for the additional development. 

#PILOT LAGOON#

The lack 
of adequate data on the aerated lagoon system prompted the developer 
to construct an aerated lagoon pilot plant to determine its feasibility 
for treating domestic sewage. The pilot plant was a circular lagoon 
81 ~ft in ~diam at the surface and 65 ~ft in ~diam at the bottom, 
4 ~ft below the surface, with a volume of 121,000 ~gal. The 
side slopes were coated with fiberglas matting coated with asphalt to 
prevent erosion. The pilot lagoon was located as shown in Figure 1 
to serve the area just south of the existing housing area. The major 
contributor was a shopping center with houses being added to the system 
as the subdivision developed. The pilot lagoon was designed to handle 
the wastes from 314 persons with a 4-day aeration period. Initially, 
the wastewater would be entirely from the shopping center with the 
domestic sewage from the houses increasing over an 18-month period. This 
operation would permit evaluation of the pilot plant, with a slowly 
increasing load, over a reasonable period of time.   The pilot 
plant was equipped with a 3-~hp turbine aerator (Figure 2). The 
aerator had a variable-speed drive to permit operation through a range 
of speeds. The sewage flow into the treatment plant was metered and 
continuously recorded on 24-~hr charts. The raw sewage was introduced 
directly under the turbine aerator to insure maximum mixing of the 
raw sewage with the aeration tank contents. The effluent was collected 
through two pipes and discharged to the Blue River through a surface 
drainage ditch. 

#ANALYSES#

Composite samples were collected at 
weekly intervals. The long retention period and the complete mixing 
concept prevented rapid changes in either the mixed liquor or in the effluent. 
Weekly samples would make any changes more readily discernible 
than daily samples. The composite samples were normally collected 
over a 6-~hr period, but an occasional 24-~hr composite was made. 
Examination of the operations of the shopping center permitted correlation 
of the 6-~hr composite samples with 24-~hr operations. The 
data indicated that the organic load during the 6-~hr composites was 
essentially 50 per cent of the 24-~hr organic load.   Grab samples 
were collected from the existing oxidation pond to determine its 
operating conditions. Efforts were made to take the grab samples at 
random periods so that the mass of data could be treated as a 6-~hr 
composite sample. A single 24-~hr composite sample indicated that the 
sewage flow pattern and characteristics were typical. 

#PILOT PLANT 
OPERATIONS#

The ~BOD of the influent to the pilot plant varied 
between 110 and 710 ~mg/~l with an average of 350 ~mg/~l. 
This was equivalent to 240 ~mg/~l~BOD on a 24-~hr basis. The 
~BOD of the raw sewage was typical of domestic sewage from a 
subdivision. 
The ~BOD in the effluent averaged 58 ~mg/~l, a 76-per 
cent reduction over the 24-~hr period. Examination of the data 
in Table /1, shows that a few samples contributed to raising the effluent 
~BOD. The periods of high effluent ~BOD occurred during 
cold periods when operational problems with the aerator resulted. 
Ice caused the aerator to overload, straining the drive belts. The 
slippage of the drive belts caused the aerator to slow down and reduce 
oxygen transfer as well as the mixing of the raw sewage.   The 
organic loading on the unit averaged 32 ~lb of ~BOD/day or about 
2 ~lb ~BOD/day/1,000 ~cu ~ft aeration capacity. Needless 
to say, the organic load was very low on a volumetric basis, but was 
270 ~lb ~BOD/day/acre on a surface loading basis. It seems that 
the aerated lagoon was a very heavily loaded oxidation pond or a lightly 
loaded activated sludge system.   The flow rate remained relatively 
constant during the winter months as shown in Table /1,. With 
the spring rains the flow rose rapidly due to infiltration in open 
sewers. As construction progresses, the volume of storm drainage will 
be sharply reduced. The retention period in the aerated lagoon ranged 
from 9.8 to 2.6 days, averaging 6.4 days.   The large amount 
of vegetable grindings from the grocery store in the shopping center 
created a suspended solids problem. The vegetables were not readily metabolized 
by the bacteria in the aeration unit and tended to float on 
the surface. A skimming device at the effluent weir prevented loss of 
most of these light solids. The average volatile suspended solids in 
the effluent was 75 ~mg/~l while ~MLSS averaged 170 ~mg/~l 
volatile suspended solids. The average sludge age based on displacement 
of solids was calculated to be 14.5 days. The oxygen uptake rate 
in the mixed liquor averaged 0.8 ~mg/~l/~hr during the first 
four months of this study. Variations in aerator speeds during the latter 
two months of this study caused increased mixing and increased oxygen 
demand. The increase in oxygen uptake rates from 1.2 to 2.6 ~mg/~l/~hr 
which followed an increase in rotor speed was believed to 
be related to resuspension of solids which had settled at the lower 
rotor speeds. It appeared that most of the mixed liquor suspended solids 
were active microbial solids with the heavier, less active solids 
settling out.   The suspended solids discharged in the effluent 
were found to be the major source of the ~BOD. Removal of the suspended 
solids by a membrane filter yielded an average effluent containing 
only 20 ~mg/~l ~BOD. The ~BOD in the drainage ditch 
receiving the pilot plant effluent averaged 12 ~mg/~l. This low ~BOD 
was due to removal of the excess suspended solids by sedimentation 
since the only dilution was surface runoff which was very low during 
this study. 

#MICROSCOPIC EXAMINATION#

Routine microscopic examinations 
were made of the mixed liquor as indicated by McKinney and 
Gram for the various types of protozoa. It was found that the 
aerated lagoon was an activated sludge system rather than an oxidation 
pond. At no time were algae found in the mixed liquor. The bacteria 
formed typical activated sludge floc. The floc particles were all small 
as the heavier floc settled out.   Initially, the flagellated 
protozoa predominated, but they soon gave way to the free swimming ciliated 
protozoa. As the temperature decreased, the number of free swimming 
ciliated protozoa decreased. Very little protozoa activity existed 
below 40`~F. When the temperature reached 32`~F all protozoan 
activity ceased; but as the temperature rose, the numbers of 
protozoa increased rapidly. Only once were stalked ciliates found in 
the mixed liquor. The predomination of free swimming ciliated protozoa 
is indicative of a high bacterial population. 

#OXYGEN TRANSFER# 

One of the important aspects of this study was to determine the oxygen 
transfer relationships of the mechanical aerator. Routine determinations 
were made for dissolved oxygen in the mixed liquor and for oxygen 
uptake rates. The data given in Table /2, show the routine operation 
of the aerator. The dissolved oxygen in the aeration unit was consistently 
high until January 29, 1961. An extended cold spell caused 
ice to build up on the aerator which was mounted on a floating platform 
and caused the entire platform to sink lower in the water. The added 
resistance to the rotor damaged the drive belts and reduced the oxygen 
transfer capacity. It was approximately one month before the belt 
problem was noticed and corrected, but at no time was there a deficiency 
of dissolved oxygen.   A series of eight special tests were 
conducted at different rotor speeds to determine the oxygen transfer 
rate. Five of the tests were conducted with a polyethylene cover to 
simulate an ice cover. The rate of oxygen transfer at 1.0-~mg/~l 
dissolved oxygen concentration and 10`~C for various rotor speeds 
is given in Table /3,. The maximum rate of oxygen transfer at 1.0 
~mg/~l dissolved oxygen was calculated as 220 ~lb/day at a maximum 
rate of 9.3 ~mg/~l/~hr. The actual power requirements indicated 
2~lb oxygen transfer/~hr/~hp. The polyethylene cover reduced 
the oxygen transfer rate by 10 per cent, indicating that the maximum 
oxygen transfer is at the rotor rather than through the surface. 

#OXIDATION 
POND#

During this study septic conditions developed in the 
oxidation pond in the spring when the ice melted. Shortly after this 
study ended septic conditions resulted which required the addition of 
sodium nitrate. The location of the oxidation pond in a high-value 
residential area makes odor nuisances a sensitive problem for the developer. 
The organic concentration in the influent raw sewage ranged from 
160 to 270 ~mg/~l of ~BOD with an average of 230 ~mg/~l. 
The ~BOD data are given in Table /4,. A single 24-~hr composite 
sample had a ~BOD of 260 ~mg/~l, indicating a typical 
domestic sewage. The daily sewage volume to the oxidation pond averaged 
147,000 ~gpd, giving a retention period of 42 days. The organic 
loading on the pond was slightly under 60~lb~BOD/day/acre.

The effluent ~BOD averaged 34 ~mg/~l, a little lower 
than that of the study at Fayette indicated for a loading of 60~lb 
~BOD/day/acre. The ~BOD of the effluent ranged from a 
minimum of 13 to a maximum of 47~mg/~l. Microscopic examination of 
the effluent showed that minimum ~BOD occurred when the algae began 
to decrease with cold weather. When the algae began to build up 
again, the effluent ~BOD rose. During the two weeks when the algae 
disappeared from the effluent ~BOD's in the effluent were 18 
and 16 ~mg/~l.

Thus, the three main categories of antisubmarine warfare operations 
are defense of shipping, defense of naval forces, and area defense. 
The last category overlaps the others in amphibious operations and 
near terminals and bases.   To effect these operations, five elements 
exist (1) surface, (2) air, (3) mines, (4) submarine, and (5) 
fixed installations. Surface forces have been used to provide defense 
zones around naval and merchant ship formations, air to furnish area 
surveillance, and mines for protection of limited areas. Submarines and 
shore installations are new elements. The submarine now has a definite 
place in submarine defense particularly in denying enemy access to 
ocean areas. Fixed installations offer possibilities for area detection. 
Mine warfare is being reoriented against submarine targets.

A sixth element, not always considered, is intelligence. It includes 
operational intelligence of the enemy and knowledge of the environment. 
Operational intelligence presumably will be available from our 
national intelligence agencies; intelligence on the environment will 
come from the recently augmented program in oceanography. The major 
postwar development is the certainty that these elements should not be 
considered singly but in combination and as being mutually supporting. 

#NECESSITY FOR AN OVER-ALL CONCEPT#

Thinking on submarine defense 
has not always been clear-cut. Proponents of single elements tend 
to ensure predominance of that element without determining if it is justified, 
and the element with the most enthusiastic and vociferous proponents 
has assumed the greatest importance. Consequently, air, surface, 
and submarine elements overshadow the mine, fixed installations, 
and intelligence. These have sought more and more of what they have. 
Each seems to strive for elimination of the necessity for the others. 
This, despite postwar experience demonstrating that all elements are 
necessarily mutually supporting. Thus, the most productive areas are 
not necessarily the most stressed. This is stated to emphasize the necessity 
for an over-all concept of submarine defense, one which would 
provide positions of relative importance to ~ASW elements based on 
projected potentialities. Then the enthusiasm and energy of all elements 
can be channeled to produce cumulative progress toward a common 
objective. An over-all concept would have other advantages. It would 
allow presentation to the public of a unified approach. Now the problem 
is presented piecemeal and sometimes contradictorily. While one 
element 
is announcing progress, another is delineating its problems. The 
result can only be confusion in the public mind. A unified concept 
can serve as a guide to budgeting and, if public support is gained, will 
command Congressional support. Industry's main criticism of the 
Navy's antisubmarine effort is that it cannot determine where any 
one company or industry can apply its skills and know-how. Lacking guidance, 
industry picks its own areas. The result, coupled with the salesmanship 
for which American industry is famous, is considerable expenditure 
of funds and efforts in marginal areas. An over-all concept 
will guide industry where available talents and facilities will yield 
greatest dividends. Therefore, a broad concept of over-all submarine 
defense is needed for co-ordination of the Navy's efforts, for a logical 
presentation to the public, for industry's guidance, and as a 
basis for a program to the Congress. 

#PRINCIPLES INVOLVED IN AN OVER-ALL 
CONCEPT#

That which follows will be a discussion of principles 
and possible content for an over-all concept of antisubmarine warfare. 
Russia possesses the preponderance of submarines in the world, divided 
between her various fleets. Some are also in Albania and others 
are on loan to Egypt. Other countries which may willingly or unwillingly 
become Communist can furnish bases. Communist target areas can 
be assumed, but there is no certainty that such assumptions coincide 
with Soviet intentions. Attack can come from almost any direction against 
many locations. Logically, then, the first principle of the plan 
must be that it is not rigidly oriented toward any geographical area.

It is often stated that the submarine can be destroyed while 
building, at bases, in transit, and on station. Destruction of the enemy's 
building and base complex, however, requires attacks on enemy 
territory, which is possible only in event of all-out hostilities. In 
transit or on station, it may not be possible to attack the submarines 
until commission of an overt act. The Communists are adept at utilizing 
hostilities short of general war and will do so whenever it is 
to their advantage. Therefore the second principle of the plan must be 
that, while providing for all-out hostilities, its effectiveness is 
not dependent on general war.   Antisubmarine warfare does not involve 
clashes between large opposing forces, with the decision a result 
of a single battle. It is a war of attrition, of single actions, 
of an exchange of losses. This exchange must result in our ending up 
with some effective units. Initially, having fewer units of some elements- 
especially submarines- than the opponent, our capabilities need 
to be sufficiently greater than theirs, so that the exchange will 
be in our favor. Therefore, the third principle of the plan must be that 
it does not depend for effectiveness on engagement by the same types, 
unless at an assured favorable exchange rate.   The submarine 
has increased its effectiveness by several orders of magnitude since 
World War /2,. Its speed has increased, it operates at increasingly 
greater depths, its submerged endurance is becoming unlimited, and 
it will become even more silent. The next developments will probably 
be in weaponry. The missile can gradually be expected to replace the 
torpedo. As detection ranges increase, weapons will be developed to 
attack other submarines and surface craft at these ranges. Therefore, 
the fourth principle of the plan must be that it provide for continuously 
increasing capabilities in the opponent.   No element can accomplish 
the total objective of submarine defense. Some elements support 
the others, 
but all have limitations. Some limitations of one element 
can be compensated for by a capability of another. Elements used 
in combination will increase the over-all capability more than the sum 
of the capabilities of the individual elements. Therefore, the plan's 
fifth principle must be that it capitalize on the capabilities of 
all elements in combination.   Conceivably the submarine defense 
problem can be solved by sufficient forces. Numbers would be astronomical 
and current fiscal policies make this an impractical solution. 
Shipbuilding, aircraft procurement, and weapon programs indicate that 
there will not be enough of anything. Therefore, any measures taken 
in peacetime which will decrease force requirements in war will contribute 
greatly to success when hostilities occur. Therefore, the sixth 
principle of the plan must be that it concentrate on current measures 
which will reduce future force requirements.   The world is constantly 
changing; what was new yesterday is obsolescent today. The 
seventh principle of the plan is self-evident; it must be flexible enough 
to allow for technological breakthroughs, scientific progress, and 
changes in world conditions. 

#SUPPORTING ELEMENTS IN ~ASW OPERATIONS# 

To this point the need for an over-all plan for submarine defense 
has been demonstrated, the mission has been stated, broad principles 
delineating its content laid down, and the supporting elements listed. 
Before considering these elements in more detail, an additional 
requirement should be stated. Large area coverage will accomplish all 
other tasks. Therefore, because reduction in tasks results in reduction 
of forces required, the plan should provide for expanding area coverage. 
But it must be remembered that the plan should not be oriented 
geographically. Consequently, the system giving area coverage (if such 
coverage is less than world wide) must be flexible and hence at least 
partially mobile. Since effective area coverage appears fairly remote, 
the requirement can be borne in mind while considering the elements: 
air, surface, sub-surface, fixed installations, mines, and intelligence. 
These are arranged approximately in the order of the vociferousness 
of their proponents but will be discussed in the reverse order 
in the hope that the true order of importance will result. ##

<Intelligence>, 
as used herein, will include information on possible 
opponents and on the environment which can affect operations. These can 
be referred to as operational intelligence and environmental intelligence. 
In submarine defense these must have maximum stress. Good operational 
intelligence can ensure sound planning, greatly reduce force 
requirements, 
and increase tactical effectiveness. Environmental intelligence 
is just as important. The ocean presently co-operates with the 
target. Full knowledge of the science of oceanography can bring the 
environment to our side, resulting in an increase in effectiveness of 
equipment and tactics, a decrease in enemy capabilities, and the development 
of methods of capitalizing on the environment. Therefore, improved 
intelligence will result in reduced force requirements and, as 
it supports all other elements, rates a top priority. Gathering intelligence 
is important, but of equal importance is its translation into 
usable form.   A program is needed to translate the results of oceanographic 
research into tactical and operating instructions. Approaching 
this problem on a statistical basis is invalid, because the opponent 
has the same sources available and will be encountered not under 
average conditions, but under the conditions most advantageous to him. 
Therefore, the on-the-scene commander must have detailed operating 
instructions based on measurement of conditions, in the area, at the time 
of encounter. All capabilities must be used to maximum advantage 
then. Temperature, wind, oxygen content, depth, bottom character, and 
animal life are the chief environmental variables. There may be others. 
Variations in sound velocity should be measured rather than temperature, 
because more of the variables would be encompassed. These variations 
must eventually be measured horizontally as well as vertically. 
Progress in predicting water conditions is encouraging, but little 
guidance is available to the man at sea on the use of such information. 
A concurrent effort is needed to make oceanographic data useful on 
the spot. ##

<Mine warfare> has in the past been directed against 
surface targets. By its nature it has always been of great psychological 
advantage and small efforts have required considerably greater 
counter-efforts. Mines are being increasingly oriented against submarine 
targets. They are still considered to be for use in restricted waters, 
however, and targets must come within a few yards of them. Mines 
need to be recognized as a major element in anti-submarine warfare employment, 
extended to deep water, and have their effective area per unit 
increased. Mines can be used to deny access to great areas; they 
are difficult to counter, cost little to maintain until required, and 
can be put into place quickly. A most attractive feature is that detection 
and attack are combined in a single package. Effective employment 
will reduce force requirements.   For example, effective mine 
barriers from Florida to Cuba and across the Yucatan Channel from 
Cuba to Mexico would remove all requirements for harbor defense, 
inshore patrol, convoy escort, shipping control, and mine defense for 
the entire Gulf of Mexico. More extended systems, covering all passage 
into the Caribbean, would free the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico 
from the previously listed requirements. Systems covering the Gulf 
of St& Lawrence and possibly the entire coasts of the United 
States are not impossible. Such mine defense systems could permit concentration 
of mobile forces in the open oceans with consequent increase 
in the probability of success. The advantages inherent in mine warfare 
justify as great an importance for this element as is accorded any 
of the other elements. ##

<Fixed installations> are increasingly 
advocated as the problem of area defense emerges. The proponents 
are scientific and technical men who exercise considerable influence 
on their military counterparts. Systems which detect submarines over 
wide areas are attractive, although they can be only "burglar alarms". 
Mobile forces are required to localize and attack detected targets, 
since the systems are not capable of pinpointing a target. Such systems 
are expensive and are oriented geographically. In an over-all 
~ASW concept, dependence on and effort expended for such systems 
should be limited to those with proven capabilities. No general installation 
should be made until a model installation has been proved and 
its maximum capability determined. In addition, proposals for fixed installations 
should be carefully weighed against a counterpart mobile 
system. For fixed installations will always lack the flexibility that 
should be inherent in naval systems. ##

<The submarine> has become 
increasingly attractive as an antisubmarine weapon system. It operates 
in its target's environment, and any advantage gained therefrom 
by the target is shared by the attacker. But the submarine is a weapon 
of ambush and therefore always in danger of being ambushed. 
Two metabolites (/1, and /2,) of ~p-aminobenzoic acid (~PABA) 
which act as cofactors for the hydroxylation of aniline by acid-fast 
bacteria are biosynthesized from ~PABA. The 7 carbons of ~PABA 
are incorporated directly into metabolite /2, (as shown with 
both ring-labeled and carboxy-labeled **f). Thirty-five of the 36 
carbon atoms arise from ~PABA. All 28 carbons of metabolite /1, 
(a product of mild acid hydrolysis of /2,) arise from ~PABA. 
Metabolite /1, isolated from the medium, however, showed a lower specific 
activity, which indicates endogenous synthesis of this metabolite.

Vigorous acid hydrolysis of metabolite /1, destroyed the 
biological activity of the compound and liberated two aryl amines. 
Fragment ~A has been obtained in crystalline form as a dioxalate salt 
and free base. Preliminary evidence tentatively indicates that the 
molecule (metabolite /1,) is cleaved at a secondary amide bond. (N& 
H& Sloane; chemical studies are being pursued with the cooperation 
of K&G& Untch.) _STUDIES ON ESTERASES_- Research 
on esterases in mammalian sera was continued. One of the most interesting 
findings was the extreme sensitivity of plasma arylesterases to 
rare earth ions. The inhibition of the enzyme by very low concentrations 
of lanthanum ion is probably the strongest known biological effect 
of rare earth salts. Various metal ions have been found to protect plasma 
arylesterase against inactivation by urea and guanidine. The effects 
can be related to the structure of this -~SH enzyme. The non-identity 
of serum and red blood cell arylesterase was also established. 
Furthermore, the hydrolysis of paraoxon was studied in mammalian 
sera, and it was found that it is hydrolyzed by albumin (or a factor attached 
to it) in addition to arylesterase. Selective inhibitors can 
distinguish the two activities. Investigations on the acceleration of 
human plasma cholinesterase were carried further. (E& G& Erdo^s, 
L& E& Boggs, C& D& Mackey) _BIOPHYSICAL STUDIES ON 
MODIFIED FIBROUS PROTEINS_- Electron-microscopical and physical-chemical 
methods were used to demonstrate the renaturation of heat-denatured 
collagen and ribonucleic acid. (R& V& Rice)   A method 
was devised for extracting and purifying soluble earthworm collagen 
(~EWC). It was observed that ~EWC macromolecules are the 
same diameter (15~A) but much longer (up to several microns) than 
vertebrate tropocollagen. This unusual collagen also was shown to undergo 
a reversible thermal phase transformation. (R& V& Rice, M& 
D& Maser) _STUDIES ON PEPTIDES AND PEPTIDASES_- This investigation 
involved several aspects. Substance ~Z, an active urinary 
peptide, was purified by extraction in organic solvents and repeated 
column chromatography; high-voltage electrophoresis and paper chromatography 
were used in preliminary structural studies; pharmacological 
effects <in vitro> on isolated surviving organs and <in vivo> 
on blood pressure were assayed; special equipment required for registering 
respiration and for recording the contraction of smooth muscles 
under various conditions was developed by the Instruments Section 
(Victor Jackman, W& C& Barnes, J& F& Reiss); and enzymes 
which terminate the action of peptides such as bradykinin and perhaps 
Substance ~Z were studied. Experiments are in progress to develop 
ultraviolet spectrophotometric techniques for assaying these enzymes 
and for studying their sensitivity to metal ions. (E& G& Erdo^s, 
C& D& Mackey, A& G& Renfrew, W& B& Severs, 
E& M& Sloane) _SEED PROTEINS_- In a physiochemical study 
of seed proteins, the globulins of the Brazil nut have been investigated. 
In addition to the known principal globulin, excelsin, three 
other ultracentrifugally distinct components have been observed. A 
water-soluble protein of quite low molecular weight (ca& 10,000) has 
also been found in this system and partly characterized. (E& F& 
Casassa, H& J& Notarius) 

#CONTINUUM MECHANICS AND VISCOELASTICITY# 

_THEORY OF NON-NEWTONIAN FLUIDS_- On the basis of 
a differentiability assumption in function space, it is possible to prove 
that, for materials having the property that the stress is given by 
a functional of the history of the deformation gradients, the classical 
theory of infinitesimal viscoelasticity is valid when the deformation 
has been infinitesimal for all times in the past. By strengthening 
the differentiability assumption, it has been possible to derive second 
and higher order theories of viscoelasticity. In the second-order 
theory, one of the normal stress differences can be calculated from the 
first-order stress relaxation function. (B& D& Coleman with 
Walter Noll, Department of Mathematics, Carnegie Institute of Technology) 
_VISCOELASTIC MEASUREMENTS_- An extensive series of 
measurements was made on a high-density polyethylene in a torsion pendulum 
instrument using forced sinusoidal oscillation, free vibration, and 
creep measurements over the temperature range of **f to 80`C&. 
As many as seven decades of the time scale were thus covered isothermally. 
The simple time-temperature equivalence valid for many amorphous 
systems did not hold here. It was possible, however, to decompose 
the compliance into a sum of a frequency-independent component and two 
viscoelastic mechanisms, each compatible with the Boltzmann superposition 
principle and with a consistent set of time-temperature equivalence 
factors. (Hershel Markovitz, D&J& Plazek, Haruo Nakayasu) 

#GEOCHEMISTRY#

_TRACE ELEMENTS IN TEKTITES, METEORITES, AND RELATED 
MATERIALS_- The results of microanalysis of tektites (natural 
glasses of unknown origin) for gallium and germanium have shown that 
these glasses are probably produced from terrestrial (or less likely 
from lunar) matter by impact of a celestial body. The gallium/germanium 
ratio is higher than that for ordinary igneous, metamorphic, or sedimentary 
matter as a result of selective volatilization of the components 
of the tektite. Gallium oxide is less volatile than silica (the 
main constituent of tektites) and germanium oxide is more volatile. Australites 
(tektites from Australia) give the appearance of a second 
melting. In conformity with this conclusion a higher trace gallium 
content was found in the portion (flange) that has undergone a second 
melting. The silicate fractions of stony meteorites show gallium/germanium 
ratios similar to those of tektites because they too have undergone 
melting at some point in their histories.   Libyan Desert silica-glass, 
another natural glass, is composed of nearly pure silica 
and has the same trace germanium content as sands in the area. The gallium 
content, however, has been enhanced five-fold. This glass is probably 
formed from Libyan Desert sands by comet or stony-meteorite 
impact.   Nickel-iron meteorites with sufficient kinetic energy 
to produce large terrestrial-explosion craters may nevertheless melt only 
small quantities of material. Most of the impact energy is spent 
in crushing and fragmentation. When rapid quenching follows melting, 
<impact glasses> may result. These always contain metallic inclusions. 
Impact glasses not containing elemental nickel-iron may have been 
produced by stony meteorites or comets. No meteorites have ever been 
recovered from paleoexplosion craters, and recent craters containing 
impact glass have all been produced by metallic meteorites with the exception 
of Aouelloul crater, Adrar, Western Sahara Desert. This 
crater contains impact glass with no metallic inclusions and no meteoritic 
material has been recovered. (A& J& Cohen, John Anania) 

#INORGANIC CHEMISTRY#

Preparation of a coordination compound is often 
accomplished by the simple method of reacting a metal salt with a 
ligand in a suitable solvent such as an alcohol. By applying this general 
principle, a great number of complex compounds of osmium, ruthenium, 
iridium, and rhenium, with triphenylphosphine, triphenylarsine, 
and triphenylstibine 
have been obtained in this laboratory during the past few 
years. (Lauri Vaska, E& M& Sloane, J& W& DiLuzio) 
In the absence of direct evidence to the contrary, decomposition of 
solvent alcohol <and> coordination of its fragments to the metal were 
not considered, following the above heretofore-accepted assumption in 
preparative coordination chemistry. Recent work with radiocarbon and 
deuterated alcohols as solvents, however, has given evidence that metal-hydrido 
and -carbonyl complexes may be readily formed by reaction 
with alcohol in some of these systems. Some of the previously reported 
compounds have thus been reformulated and a series of new hydrido and 
carbonyl compounds discovered, the more representative examples being 
**f, **f, **f, **f and **f (**f).   The coordination complexes 
formed by transition metals with primary and secondary phosphines and 
arsines are being investigated (R& G& Hayter). Particular interest 
is directed towards the condensation of these ligands with metal 
halides to form substituted phosphide or arside complexes. During the 
past year, these ligands have yielded some unusual five-coordinate complexes 
of nickel (/2,) and some interesting binuclear phosphorus-bridged 
complexes of palladium (/2,) (see figure), as well as new compounds 
of the well-known type **f. The structures, properties, and reactions 
of these compounds are being studied.   In another study 
chromium-substituted aluminum oxyhydroxides and related species, prepared 
homogeneously by high-temperature hydrolysis, are being characterized 
and investigated spectrally in the ultraviolet region with a view 
to identification and semiquantitative estimation of the phases formed 
under varying preparative conditions. (J& A& Laswick, N& L& 
Heatwole) 

#STRUCTURE AND PROPERTIES OF MACROMOLECULES#

_ELASTICITY 
OF MACROMOLECULAR NETWORKS_- The theory of elasticity of 
Gaussian networks has been developed on a more general basis and the 
equations of state relating variables of pressure, volume, temperature, 
stress and strain have been precisely formulated. Simple elongation 
has been treated in detail. The various stress-temperature coefficients 
for constancy of volume and strain, constancy of pressure and strain, 
and constancy of pressure and length have been interrelated. The 
dilation accompanying elongation and the simultaneously developed anisotropy 
of compressibility have been related to the elongation. In continuation 
of these theoretical studies, a more precise elucidation of 
the effects of imperfections in network structure is sought. (P& J& 
Flory, C& A& J& Hoeve) _CHAIN CONFORMATIONS OF POLYMERIC 
CHAINS_- Recent theoretical work to calculate the dimensions 
of polymeric chains by Volkenstein and Lifson has been extended to include 
more general types of chains. The mean-square end-to-end distance 
of the polyisobutylene chain has been calculated in reasonable agreement 
with values deduced from viscosity data. These studies are being 
extended to different polymers to increase our knowledge about the 
hindrances to rotation around chain bonds. (C& A& J& Hoeve, 
A& A& Blumberg) _CRYSTALLIZATION IN POLYMERS AND COPOLYMERS_- 
The crystallization of copolymers comprising **f units interspersed 
with a minor percentage of **f is limited by the inability of the 
crystal lattice characteristic of the former to accommodate the bulky 
side group of the latter. Only uninterrupted sequences of the former 
are eligible for formation of crystallites. Limitations on the lengths 
of these sequences diminish the stability of the comparatively short 
crystallites which can be formed, and this is reflected in a broadening 
of the melting range. (Robert Chiang, J& B& Jackson, P& 
J& Flory) Carefully executed melting studies on this system (M& 
J& Richardson) permit quantitative estimation of the instability 
engendered by reduced crystallite length. The complex morphology of 
polycrystalline homopolymers is necessarily dependent on the same factor. 
Hence, the present studies offer a possible basis for interpretations 
in the latter field. _CONTRACTION OF MUSCLE_- Glycerinated 
muscle, in the presence of the physiological agent. (~ATP) responsible 
for delivering energy to the mechanochemically active proteins 
of muscle, has been shown to undergo a contraction which is highly sensitive 
both to temperature and to solvent composition in mixtures of 
alcohols and water. Experiments carried out over long periods of time 
in order to allow establishment of a steady state have shown that the 
onset of contraction and its completion are confined to an interval of 
several degrees Centigrade and to a concentration range of only several 
per cent. The contraction therefore partakes of the character of 
a phase transition. While ~ATP appears to be necessary for the 
occurrence of contraction, its presence and enzymatic hydrolysis of it 
by the muscle protein myosin are not the only criteria for contraction. 
(C& A& J& Hoeve, P& J& Flory) _ANIONIC POLYMERIZATION_- 
One of the principal aims of anionic polymerization techniques 
is the synthesis of polymers of extremely narrow molecular weight 
distribution. A simple process for the preparation of nearly monodisperse 
polystyrene of predictable molecular weight has been developed. 
The preparation of such products is not new, but the systems heretofore 
employed in polymerizations have commanded considerable experimental 
skill and starting materials of a high purity. In the new process 
impurities present in the solvent (benzene), the monomer, and in the 
reaction system which would cause deactivation of propagation centers, 
are rendered inactive prior to polymerization by gradual addition of 
initiator, a mixture of butyl-lithium and telomeric styryl-lithium, at 
a temperature low enough to suppress chain growth. Upon completion 
of the purging step, additional initiator appropriate for the molecular 
weight of the sample desired is added, and the system is then warmed 
to the polymerization temperature, at which the reaction is allowed 
to go to completion. The predictability of the molecular weights was 
found to be within 10% for the polymers prepared, with **f ratios less 
than 1.1.   Contrary to observations with ethers, no apparent 
change of the reactivity of the chain ends takes place over considerable 
periods of time in benzene as solvent. 
_ORGANIZATION:_ In this publication measurements of interfacial 
angles of crystals are used to classify and identify chemical substances. 
T& V& Barker, who developed the classification-angle system, 
was about to begin the systematic compilation of the index when he 
died in 1931. The compilation work was undertaken by a number of interested 
crystallographers in the Department of Mineralogy of the University 
Museum at Oxford. Since 1948 the working headquarters has 
been the 
Department of Geology and Mineralogy. Numerous cooperating individuals 
in Great Britain, Holland, the United States, and Belgium 
have contributed editorially or by making calculations. Great interest 
and practical help have been given by the Barker Index Committee. 
Financial and material help have come from academic, governmental, and 
industrial organizations in England and Holland. Editors for Volumes 
/1, and /2, were M& W& Porter and the late R& C& 
Spiller, both of Oxford University. A third volume remains to be 
published. _SUBSTANCES:_ Volume /1, deals with 2991 compounds 
belonging to the tetragonal, hexagonal and trigonal, and orthorhombic 
systems; and Volume /2,, with about 3500 monoclinic substances. 
Volume /3,, in preparation, will treat the anorthic compounds described 
in Groth's CHEMISCHE KRYSTALLOGRAPHIE. _PROPERTIES:_ 
The Barker system is based on the use of the smallest number of 
interfacial angles necessary for indexing purposes. Other morphological, 
physical, and optical property values are also given. _SOURCES 
OF DATA:_ The index is essentially a new treatment of previously 
compiled morphological data. Most of the data used are from Groth's 
CHEMISCHE KRYSTALLOGRAPHIE. _CRITICALITY:_ Every calculation 
has been made independently by two workers and checked by one of 
the editors. _USE OF NOMENCLATURE, SYMBOLS, UNITS, PHYSICAL CONSTANTS:_ 
Accepted crystallographic symbolism has been used; other 
symbols related to the index necessarily have been introduced. _CURRENCY:_ 
This publication covers the old literature (Groth); there 
is no mechanism for keeping the volumes up to date. _FORMAT:_ 
The publication form is that of clothbound books. The data are presented 
in lists and tables. Part 1 in both volumes is labeled "Introduction 
and Tables". The tables include those for the classification 
angles, refractive indices, and melting points of the various types 
of crystals. Part 2 of Volume /1, and Parts 2 and 3 of Volume 
/2, contain the crystal descriptions. These are grouped into sections 
according to the crystal system, and within each section compounds 
are arranged in the same order as in Groth's CHEMISCHE KRYSTALLOGRAPHIE. 
An alphabetical list of chemical and mineralogical names 
with reference numbers enables one to find a particular crystal description. 
References to the data sources are given in the crystal descriptions. 
_PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION:_ The BARKER INDEX 
is published for the Barker Index Committee by W& Heffer + Sons, 
Ltd&, 3-4 Petty Cury, Cambridge, England. Volume /1, containing 
Parts 1 and 2 was published in 1951; Volume /2,, in three 
parts, in 1956. The two volumes are available from the publisher 
for $16.80 and $28.00, respectively. #/2,-2. CRYSTAL DATA#

_ORGANIZATION:_ 
The present edition of CRYSTAL DATA was written 
by J&D&H& Donnay, the Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
Md& (Part /2,) and Werner Nowacki, University of Berne, 
Switzerland (Part /1,) with the collaboration of Gabrielle Donnay, 
U& S& Geological Survey, Washington, D& C&. Many collaborators 
in the United States and Switzerland helped in collecting 
and assembling data, in making calculations, and in editing. Support 
came from academic and industrial groups in these two countries. The 
Geological Society of America gave a grant-in-aid to complete the 
work and bore the expenses of publication. Preparation of a second 
edition is in progress under the sponsorship of the Crystal Data Committee 
of the American Crystallographic Association. Coeditors are 
J&D&H& Donnay, G& E& Cox of Leeds University, and 
Olga Kennard of the National Council for Medical Research, London. 
Financial grants have been received from the National Science 
Foundation and the (British) Institute of Physics for the compilation 
work and the publication costs. The continuity of the project is 
suggested by plans for an eventual third edition. _SUBSTANCES:_ 
Elements, alloys, inorganic and organic compounds. (Metal data will 
not be included in the second edition, since these have been collected 
independently by W& B& Pearson, National Research Council, 
Ottawa, and published as A HANDBOOK OF LATTICE SPACINGS AND STRUCTURES 
OF METALS AND ALLOYS by Pergamon Press.) _PROPERTIES:_ 
Crystallographic data resulting mainly from ~X-ray and electron 
diffraction measurements are presented. Cell dimensions, number of formula 
units per cell, space group, and specific gravity are given for 
all substances. For some substances, auxiliary properties such as the 
melting point are given. _SOURCES OF DATA:_ Part /1, of the 
present edition covers the literature to mid-1948; Part /2,, up 
to the end of 1951. Much of the material comes directly from secondary 
sources such as STRUKTURBERICHT. _CRITICALITY:_ The vast 
number of compounds to be covered, the limited resources to do the job, 
and the immediate need for this type of compilation precluded a thorough 
evaluation of all available data in the present edition. Future 
editions may be more critical. _USE OF NOMENCLATURE, SYMBOLS, UNITS, 
PHYSICAL CONSTANTS:_ Since Parts /1, and /2, were prepared 
independently, the abbreviation schemes and the chemical symbols used 
differ in the two parts. The second edition should have greater uniformity. 
_CURRENCY:_ A second edition is in preparation, and there 
are long range plans for a third. _FORMAT:_ Data in the present 
edition are presented in tables and lists. Part /1, deals with 
the classification of crystalline substances by space groups and is 
not a numerical data compilation. The compounds are divided according 
to composition into seven categories. Part /2, contains determinative 
tables for the identification of crystalline substances. These are 
arranged according to crystal system. There are formula and name indexes 
covering both parts. References for Part /1, are given at the 
end and for Part /2, in the tables. _PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION:_ 
The present edition of CRYSTAL DATA (**f), published in 
1954 as Memoir 60 of the Geological Society of America, is now out 
of print. The manuscript of the second edition will probably be ready 
by the end of 1960. #/2,-3. CRYSTAL STRUCTURES#

_ORGANIZATION:_ 
The author of CRYSTAL STRUCTURES is Ralph W&G& 
Wyckoff, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona. The first section 
of this publication appeared in 1948 and the last supplement in 1960. 
Though now complete, the publication is included in this directory 
because of its importance and because of the long-term nature of its 
preparation. _SUBSTANCES:_ Elements, inorganic and organic compounds 
(no alloys). _PROPERTIES:_ The data presented are derived 
almost entirely from ~X-ray diffraction measurements and include 
atomic coordinates, cell dimensions, and atomic and ionic radii. _SOURCES 
OF DATA:_ Published literature. _CRITICALITY:_ The 
aim was to state the results of <all> available determinations of atomic 
positions in crystals. Presumably the tabulated data are best available 
values. The critical comments in the textual sections of this 
publication are invaluable. _USE OF NOMENCLATURE, SYMBOLS, UNITS, 
PHYSICAL CONSTANTS:_ The terminology used conforms to that of INTERNATIONALE 
TABELLEN ZUR BESTIMMUNG VON KRISTALLSTRUKTUREN. _CURRENCY:_ 
During the years of publication, supplement and replacement 
sheets were issued periodically. Coverage of the literature extends 
through 1954 and includes some 1955 references. It is to be hoped 
that some way will be found to keep this important work current. _FORMAT:_ 
The publication form is that of loose-leaf sheets (**f) 
contained in binders. The book is divided into chapters and in each chapter 
the material is grouped into Text, Tables, Illustrations, and 
Bibliography. Each group is paginated separately; numbers sometimes 
followed by letters are used so that insertions can be made. Inorganic 
structures are found in Chapters /2,-/12,, organic structures 
in Chapters /13,-/15,. Within each chapter an effort has been 
made to group together those crystals with similar structures. There 
are three indexes, i&e&, an inorganic formula index, a mineralogical 
name index, and a name index to organic compounds. _PUBLICATION 
AND DISTRIBUTION:_ Publisher of CRYSTAL STRUCTURES is Interscience 
Publishers, 250 Fifth Avenue, New York 1, N& Y&. The 
work consists of four sections and 5 supplements. Price of the complete 
work including all necessary binders is $148.50. #/2,-4. DANA'S 
SYSTEM OF MINERALOGY#

_ORGANIZATION:_ Six editions of 
James Dwight Dana's SYSTEM appeared between 1837 and 1892. 
In 1915 Edward S& Dana, editor of the sixth edition, asked W& 
E& Ford of Yale University to prepare a seventh edition of his 
father's work. A number of people became involved in the preparation 
but work was slow until 1937. In that year a grant was obtained from 
the Penrose Fund of the Geological Society of America to finance 
additional full-time workers. Money was also advanced by the publishers, 
John Wiley + Sons, Inc&. Volume /1, was completed in 1941 
and published in 1944. The editors of this volume and Volume /2, 
were the late Charles Palache, Clifford Frondel, and the late Harry 
Berman, all of Harvard University. Work on Volume /2, was 
begun in 1941, interrupted by the war in 1942, and resumed in 1945. The 
volume was completed in 1950 and published in 1951. A supplementary 
grant from the Geological Society of America helped finance its 
publication. Besides the editors there were many contributors in the 
United States and Great Britain to Volumes /1, and /2,. W& 
E& Ford, for example, continued to supply data on the occurrence 
of minerals until his death in 1939. Volume /3, is nearing completion 
and there are plans to revise Volume /1,. The project is currently 
supported by Harvard University. _SUBSTANCES:_ Minerals. 
_PROPERTIES:_ Crystallographic, physical, optical, and chemical 
properties. The crystallographic data given include interaxial angles 
and unit cell dimensions; the physical property values include hardness, 
melting point, and specific gravity. _SOURCES OF DATA:_ Almost 
entirely original articles in journals; abstracts and other compilations 
on rare occasions when original papers are not available. 
_CRITICALITY:_ All information is carefully appraised and uncertain 
facts are designated by (?). An authentic diffraction pattern 
is always obtained and optical properties are frequently checked. _USE 
OF NOMENCLATURE, SYMBOLS, UNITS, PHYSICAL CONSTANTS:_ Recommendations 
of international authorities, such as the International Union 
of Crystallography, are followed. There is a complete synonymy at 
the beginning of each species description. _CURRENCY:_ Currency 
in the usual sense cannot be maintained in an undertaking of this sort. 
_FORMAT:_ The data are presented in text and tables in bound 
volumes. Volume /1, of the seventh edition contains an introduction 
and data for eight classes of minerals; Volume /2, contains data 
for forty-two classes. References are given at the end of each mineral 
description and a general index is given at the end of each volume. 
There will be a comprehensive index in Volume /3, covering all 
three volumes. _PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION:_ Volume /1, (**f) 
of the seventh edition of DANA'S SYSTEM OF MINERALOGY was published 
in 1944 and Volume /2, (**f) in 1951 by John Wiley + Sons, 
Inc&, New York, N& Y&. (The association of Wiley + Sons 
with the Dana Mineralogies dates back to 1844 when they published 
the second edition of the SYSTEM.) The two volumes are available 
from the publisher for $14.00 and $16.00, respectively. #/2,-5. 
THE GROTH INSTITUTE#

_ORGANIZATION:_ "The Groth Institute", 
which was established in 1958, is a group activity affiliated 
with the Physics Department of The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, Pa&. Ray Pepinsky is the Director. The Institute 
derives its name from Paul von Groth's CHEMISCHE KRYSTALLOGRAPHIE, 
a five-volume work which appeared between 1906 and 1919. 
The resident staff is large and consists of professional assistants, 
graduate students, abstractors, librarian, technical editor, machine 
operators, secretarial help, and others. There are also corresponding 
members and outside advisory groups. The Air Force Office of Scientific 
Research has provided financial assistance in the early stages 
of the Institute's program. _SUBSTANCES:_ All crystalline 
substances and other solid-state materials. _PROPERTIES:_ The 
aim is to collect a very broad range of physical, chemical, morphological, 
and structural data for crystals on an encyclopedic scale and to 
seek all possible useful and revealing correlations of properties with 
internal structure. _SOURCES OF DATA:_ The first stage of operation 
has centered on the literature imaging of critical or summarizing 
tabulations such as the Barker Index. Coverage of primary literature 
will follow. Unpublished data will be available to the Groth institute 
from cooperating groups and individuals. _CRITICALITY:_ 
Critical evaluation of all data compiled is not a primary aim of this 
project. However, the proposed correlation of the many interrelated 
properties of crystals will reveal discrepancies in the recorded data 
and suggest areas for reinvestigation. In addition, the availability 
of computers will permit recalculation and refinement of much structural 
information. _USE OF NOMENCLATURE, SYMBOLS, UNITS, PHYSICAL 
CONSTANTS:_ For punched-card or tape storage of information all 
literature values must be conformed to a common language. In this 
way a degree of unification of nomenclature, symbols, and units will be 
realized. 
BECAUSE INDIVIDUAL CLASSES OF foods differ in their requirements 
for preservation, a number of methods have been developed over the years 
involving one or a combination of procedures such as dehydration, 
fermentation, salting, chemical treatment, canning, refrigeration, and 
freezing. The basic objectives in each instance are to make available 
supplies of food during the intervals between harvesting or slaughter, 
to minimize losses resulting from the action of microorganisms and 
insects, and to make it possible to transport foods from the area of 
harvest or production to areas of consumption.   In earlier years, 
the preservation of food was essentially related to survival. In 
the more sophisticated atmosphere of today's developed nations, food-preservation 
techniques have sought also to bring variety, peak freshness, 
and optimum taste and flavor in foods at reasonable cost to the 
comsumer.   With the development of nuclear technology, isotopic 
materials, and machine radiation sources in recent years, the possibilities 
of applying ionizing radiation to the preservation of foods attracted 
the attention of investigators in the United States and throughout 
the world. An early hope that irradiation might be the ultimate 
answer to practically all food preservation problems was soon dispelled. 
Interest remained, however, in the possibility that it would serve 
as a useful supplementary method for counteracting spoilage losses 
and for preserving some foods at lower over-all costs than freezing, or 
without employing heat or chemicals with their attendant taste alterations. 

#FACTORS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE SPOILAGE OF FOODS#

The chief 
factors responsible for the spoilage of fresh foodstuffs are (1) microorganisms 
such as bacteria, molds, and yeasts, (2) enzymes, (3) insects, 
(4) sprouting, and (5) chemical reactions. Microorganisms are often 
responsible for the rapid spoilage of foods. Of special concern is 
the growth of bacteria such as <Clostridium botulinum> which generate 
poisonous products. Enzymatic action in stored food produces changes 
which can adversely affect the appearance of food or its palatability. 
Spoilage by chemical action results from the reaction of one group 
of components in the food with others or with its environment, as in 
corrosion of the walls of metal containers or the reaction of fats with 
oxygen in the air to produce rancidity.   Sprouting is a naturally 
occurring phenomenon in stored potatoes, onions, carrots, beets, 
and similar root vegetables. Insect infestation is a problem of importance 
chiefly in stored grain. The presence of parasitic organisms 
such as <Trichinella spiralis> in pork introduces another factor which 
must be dealt with in food processing.   To permit the storage 
of food for long periods of time, a method of preservation must accomplish 
the destruction of microorganisms and inhibition of enzymatic 
action. The term "sterilization" applies to methods involving essentially 
complete destruction of all microorganisms. Food treated in 
this manner and protected from recontamination by aseptic methods of packaging 
and containment presumably could be stored for long periods without 
refrigeration. The process of "pasteurization" involves milder 
and less prolonged heat treatment which accomplishes the destruction 
of most, but not all, of the microorganisms. Less severe thermal 
treatment as by blanching or scalding serves to inactivate enzymes. 

#GENERAL 
EFFECTS OF IONIZING RADIATION#

Ionizing radiation can cause 
the destruction of microorganisms and insects involved in food spoilage 
or, at lower doses, can inhibit their action. It furnishes a means 
of destroying insects in stored grain products as well as certain parasitic 
organisms present in meats. Deactivation of enzymes is also 
possible, although some types require extremely heavy doses of 10 ~Mrad 
or more. Because of undesirable flavors, odors, colors, and generally 
low palatability associated with radiation treatment of this magnitude, 
the inactivation of enzymes is best accomplished prior to irradiation 
by the conventional heat-processing methods of blanching.

Radiation does not retard the chemical spoilage of food. It will, 
however, inhibit the sprouting of potatoes and other root vegetables.

The radiation doses required for the preservation of foods 
are in the following ranges: _1._ For radiosterilization, to destroy 
all organisms for long-term preservation- about 4.5 ~Mrad for 
nonacid foods of low salt content. _2._ For radiopasteurization, 
to partially destroy microorganisms; results vary with types of food, 
storage conditions, and objectives of treatment- commonly of the 
order of 0.2 ~Mrads but up to about 0.8 ~Mrads. _3._ For 
destruction of insects- about 25,000 ~rads. _4._ For inhibiting 
the sprouting of root vegetables- 4,000 to 10,000 ~rads. 
Preserving foods with ionizing radiation leads to some undesirable side 
effects, particularly at the higher radiation dosages. In this respect, 
the general palatability and individual acceptance of most radiosterilized 
foods has, to date, been found to be low in comparison with 
fresh and commercially processed foods. A number of foods are quite 
acceptable as regards taste and palatability, however, at dosages substantially 
less than sterilization levels. Moreover, the nutritive value 
of irradiated foods apparently undergoes little, if any, change, although 
some of the fat-soluble vitamins are affected by sterilization 
doses. 

#RADIATION SOURCES#

For irradiation of food, the results 
obtained depend upon the dose rather than the specific type of radiation, 
and X-ray, gamma, and high-energy electron radiation are suitable. 
Aside from availability and economic considerations, each has certain 
practical advantages; for example, gamma rays give deeper penetration 
but cannot be focused or collimated, whereas unidirectional electron 
beams may be split and directed to both the top and bottom of the 
food package to be irradiated. Selection of a source for commercial irradiation 
would involve consideration of numerous factors including required 
dose rate, load factor, throughput, convenience, safety, and most 
important, costs.   Of the potentially useful sources of ionizing 
radiations, gamma sources, cobalt-60, cesium-137, fission products, 
or a reactor irradiation loop system using a material such as an indium 
salt have received most attention for food-preservation systems. 
Of the various particle accelerators, the Van de Graff machines, resonant 
transformers, and linear accelerators are the principal ones available 
for commercial use.   Costs of the effective energy produced 
by these sources is a major obstacle in the development of food-preservation 
processes. Estimated production costs of radiation energy 
from machine and nuclide sources range from $1 to $10 per ~kwhr. Conventional 
energy for processing foods is available in the range of 
at most a few cents per ~kwhr for electric power and the equivalent 
of a few mills per ~kwhr for process steam. Radiation, therefore, is 
at an initial cost disadvantage even though only 1 to 10 per cent as 
much radiation energy as heat energy is required for radiopasteurization 
or radiosterilization. What are the possibilities of lowered radiation 
production costs for the future? It has been estimated that for 
applications on a megawatt scale costs might reach values in the neighborhood 
of 10 cents per ~kwhr for large-scale accelerators or for 
gamma radiation generated in a reactor core. No comparable reductions 
in the cost of nuclide radiation are foreseen. Such projections, however, 
appear highly 
speculative and the capacities involved are far beyond 
those foreseen for food-preservation facilities.   Because agricultural 
activities are seasonal and the areas of production and harvest 
of many foods are widely scattered geographically, and because of 
the high cost of transporting bulk food items any substantial distance 
to a central processing location, the use of large central processing 
stations, where low-cost radiation facilities approaching the megawatt 
range might be utilized, is inherently impracticable. 

#PRESENT STATUS 
OF IRRADIATION PRESERVATION OF FOODS#

The objective of complete 
sterilization of foods is to produce a wholesome and palatable product 
capable of being stored without refrigeration for extended periods 
of time. Chief interest in radiosterilization resides in the military 
services. For them, providing appetizing food under battle or emergency 
conditions is a paramount consideration. They require completely 
sterile foods capable of being stored without refrigeration, preferably 
items already cooked and ready to eat. High nutritional value, variety, 
palatability, and appetizing appearance are important for reasons 
of morale. Foods for rear stations, which require cooking, but no refrigeration, 
are also of interest. Of primary interest are meats.

Radiopasteurization, which produces fewer adverse sensory changes 
in food products, has potential usefulness in prolonging the keeping 
qualities of fresh and refrigerated food items. Thus, food so processed 
might reach more remote markets and permit the consumer to enjoy more 
produce at peak freshness and palatability. Commercial interest is chiefly 
in this type of treatment, as is military interest under peacetime 
conditions.   The present status of food preservation by ionizing 
radiation is discussed by food classes in the following paragraphs. 
_MEATS_ The radiation processing of meat has received extensive 
investigation. To date, the one meat showing favorable results at 
sterilization doses is pork. Of particular interest to the military 
services is the demonstration that roast pork, after radiosterilization, 
is superior in palatability to available canned pork products. Tests 
with beef have been largely unsuccessful because of the development 
of off-flavors. A prime objective of the Army Quartermaster Corps 
program is to find the reasons for beef's low palatability and means 
of overcoming it, since it is a major and desirable dietary item. Partly 
because low-level heat treatment is needed to inactivate enzymes 
before radiosterilization, treated fresh meats have the appearance of 
boiled or canned meat.   Off-flavor is a less severe problem with 
the radiopasteurization of meats, but problems of commercial acceptability 
remain. Moderate radiation doses of from 100,000 to 200,000 ~rads 
can extend the shelf life (at 35 ~F) of fresh beef from 5 days 
to 5 or 6 weeks. However, the problem of consumer acceptability remains. 
The preradiation blanching process discolors the treated beef 
and liquid accumulates in prepackaged cuts. Cooked beef irradiated in 
the absence of oxygen assumes an unnatural pink color.   When lamb 
and mutton are irradiated at substerilization doses, the meat becomes 
dehydrated, the fat become chalky, and, again, unnatural changes in 
color occur.   Ground meats such as fresh pork sausage and hamburger 
have a relatively short shelf life under refrigeration, and radiopasteurization 
might be thought to offer distinctly improved keeping 
qualities. However, a major problem here is one of scale of processing; 
ground meats are usually prepared from scrap meats at the local 
level, whereas irradiation at economic volumes of production would require 
central processing and distribution facilities. The problems of 
color change by blanching and liquid accumulation within the package are 
the same as for solid cuts.   Specialty cooked items containing 
meat portions, as in "frozen dinners" might offer a potential use 
for radiopasteurization. The principal potential advantage would be 
that the finished product could be transported and stored at lower cost 
under refrigeration instead of being frozen. A refrigerated item 
could also be heated and served in less time than is required for frozen 
foods of the same type.   Competitive processes for preserving 
meats are by canning and freezing. Costs of canning meat are in the 
range of 0.8 to 5 cents per pound; costs of freezing are in the area 
of 2 to 3.5 cents per pound. The table on page 10 shows costs of canning 
and freezing meat, and estimated costs for irradiation under certain 
assumed conditions. Under the conditions of comparison, it will 
be noted that: _(1)_ Radiosterilization (at 3 ~Mrad) is more 
expensive than canning, particularly for the cesium-137 source. _(2)_ 
Radiopasteurization by either the electron accelerator or cesium-137 
source is in the range of freezing costs. _(3)_ Irradiation 
using the nuclide source is more expensive than use of an electron accelerator. 
_POULTRY_ Results of irradiation tests with poultry have 
been quite successful. At sterilizing doses, good palatability results, 
with a minimum of changes in appearance, taste, and odor. Radiopasteurization 
has also been successful, and the shelf life of chicken 
can be extended to a month or more under refrigerated storage as compared 
with about 10 days for the untreated product. Acceptable taste and 
odor are retained by the irradiated and refrigerated chicken. Acceptance 
of radiopasteurization is likely to be delayed, however, for two 
reasons: (1) the storage life of fresh chicken under refrigeration 
is becoming a minimal problem because of constantly improved sanitation 
and distributing practices, and (2) treatment by antibiotics, a measure 
already approved by the Federal Food and Drug Administration, 
serves to extend the storage life of chicken at a low cost of about 0.5 
cent per pound. _SEAFOOD_ Fresh seafood products are extremely 
perishable. Although refrigeration has served to extend the storage 
life of these products, substantially increased consumption might be possible 
if areas remote from the seacoast could be served adequately. 
Furthermore, it has made an exact assessment of the removal mechanisms 
possible.   The instrument is shown in Fig& 1 and consists 
essentially of a hard, sharp, tungsten carbide knife which is pushed 
along the substrate to remove the coating. The force required to accomplish 
removal is plotted, by means of an electronic recorder, against 
distance of removal. Since the removal force is a function of coating 
thickness, a differential transformer pickup has been incorporated into 
the instrument to accurately measure film thickness. This, too, is 
recorded against distance by a repeat run over the same track previously 
cut. A number of adjustment features are included in the Hesiometer 
to facilitate measurement and permit ready removal of coatings deposited 
on such substrates as iron and other metals, glass, wood, and 
plastic surfaces. The measurement of topcoats on primers can also readily 
be carried out.   Hesiometer results have been found to compare 
excellently with manual knife scratching tests. The instrumental 
method, however, is about 100 times more sensitive and yields numerical 
results which can be accurately repeated at wil over a period of time. 
If a wedge-shaped coating of increasing thickness is removed from 
a substrate by an instrument like the Hesiometer with a knife of constant 
rake angle, a number of removal mechanisms are often observed 
which depend upon the thickness of the coating. At low thicknesses a 
cutting (or shearing) phenomenon is often encountered. As the coating 
becomes thicker, the cutting may abruptly change to a cracking type of 
failure. If the coating becomes still thicker, a peeling type failure 
finally can occur. The typical appearance of these various mechanisms 
is illustrated in Figs& 2, 3, and 4, which are single frame enlargements 
of high speed movies taken during the course of the knife removal 
process. It can be seen from Fig& 2 that the cutting removal 
of a coating from its substrate involves pure cohesive failure of the 
coating. The molecular forces holding the coating to the substrate are 
obviously greater than the cohesive strength of the coating and 
failure occurs by shear along a plane starting at the tip of the knife 
and extending to the coating surface.   The pictures of Figs& 
3 and 
4 show the cracking and peeling types of removal where the coating 
is detached by failure in a region at, or close to, the interface between 
coating and substrate.   If the force required to remove the 
coatings is plotted against film thickness, a graph as illustrated schematically 
in Fig& 5 may characteristically result. Here, ~<H> 
is the coatings removal force measured parallel to the surface of the 
substrate and ~<t> is the film thickness. It can be seen that 
the force is characteristic of the removal process and changes abruptly 
from cutting to cracking to peeling removal. Also, it can be readily 
seen that the cutting and peeling types of failure show a steady state 
response, while the cracking mechanism is of a dynamic nature.

It should be recalled that these three mechanisms can occur on the 
same coating deposited upon the same substrate merely as a function of 
changes in coatings thickness. Presumably the interfacial bond strength 
and gross cohesive properties are identical in each case. What then, 
are the factors that contribute to these phenomena? Why should 
the "practical adhesion" of a coating as assessed by a knife method 
change, initially increasing rather rapidly and then decreasing stepwise 
to very low values as the knife is forced through a coating of increasing 
thickness? 

#CUTTING MECHANISM OF COHESIVE FAILURE#

The 
cutting (or shearing) removal process has been previously described. 
It was found that the coating is separated from its substrate entirely 
by cohesive failure. The details of the removal process are shown 
schematically in Fig& 6. The various forces result from the reaction 
of the removed paint chip against the face of the knife and along 
the shear plane, which makes an angle ~|f with the substrate. The 
action and reaction forces are ~<R> and **f, respectively and 
are equal and opposite in direction. All the other force vectors are 
derived from these. **f is the force required to cut a coating of thickness 
~<t> from the substrate. **f is the shear force along the shear 
plane; **f and **f are the thrust forces acting against coating 
and knife, respectively; **f is the normal compressive force acting 
on the shear plane; **f is the friction force between chip and knife 
surfaces, and ~<P> is the normal force acting on the face of the 
knife. ~|a is the rake angle of the knife; ~|f is the angle 
the shear plane makes with the substrate; ~|t is the friction 
angle; and ~|b is the angle the resultants make with the plane of 
the substrate.   An analysis of the vector relationships shows 
that the rake angle ~|a and the friction angle ~|t determine 
the vector direction **f of the force resultants ~<R> and **f. Consequently, 
both the rake angle of the knife as well as the friction 
occurring between the back of the removed coating and the front of the 
knife will determine in large part the detailed mechanism of the cutting 
removal process.   It is difficult to measure the direction 
and magnitude of ~<R> directly. In actual practice, the values most 
readily amenable to measurement are the cutting force **f and the 
shear angle ~|f. These two values and the rake angle ~|a are 
sufficient to determine the other parameters of these relationships. 
~|a is defined by the geometry of the knife; ~|f can readily 
be determined by measuring the thickness of the coating before and after 
cutting from the substrate; **f is instrumentally determined. From 
Fig& 6 the relationship between these parameters can readily be 
derived and the cutting force is **f where ~|l is the shear strength 
of the coating and is a parameter of the coatings material, ~<w> 
is the width of the removed coating and ~<t> is its thickness.

If the cutting force, **f is plotted against film thickness, 
a straight line should result passing through the origin and having slope 
**f. However, in the actual assessment of the cutting force by instrumental 
methods for any thickness of coating a number of spurious effects 
occur which must be taken into account and which make the measured 
value larger than the true cutting force indicated by eqn& (1). 

#BLUNT KNIFE#

One of these is the fact that the knife employed, no 
matter how well sharpened, will have a slightly rounded cutting edge. 
This signifies that ~|a, the rake angle, is no longer a constant 
to zero film thickness. The curvature of this bluntness is, in the 
case of the Carboloy knife employed in the Hesiometer, determined by 
the grain sizes of the polished grit and the tungsten carbide crystals 
cemented together in the knife body and is in the order of 0.1 to 0.2 
mil&.   The force vector concept of Fig& 6 can readily be 
applied to this condition also. Because the rake angle **f at the tip 
of the knife is very much smaller (or even negative) when compared 
to the value of ~|a for the major portion of the knife, a very rapid 
increase in cutting force with thickness will result. This reduces 
to the relationship: **f where **f is the intercept at zero thickness 
of the extrapolation of the slope indicated in eqn& (1), **f is the 
thickness of the coating equivalent to the rounding off of the knife 
tip, **f is a straight line first approximation of this roundness, and 
the other symbols are equivalent to those of eqn& (1). It can be 
seen that **f is a constant, and is determined for the most part by the 
geometry of the knife. The blunter the knife, the higher is the value 
of **f. The importance of a hard, abrasion resistant knife material 
like the Carboloy employed in the Hesiometer immediately becomes 
apparent. Softer knives would blunt very rapidly, making the value of 
**f inexact. In extreme cases of very soft knives this value may even 
change during the course of a measurement. 

#KNIFE FRICTION#

A second 
factor which enters into the practical measurement of the instrumentally 
determined cutting force is the frictional resistance caused 
by the bottom of the knife against the substrate. This is not a constant 
value like **f, but varies with the thickness of the coating and the 
direction and magnitude of the resultants ~<R> and **f of Fig& 
6. Under equilibrium conditions of cutting the chip exerts a thrust 
**f against the knife which tends to push it into the substrate or 
lift it away from the substrate depending on the vector direction of **f. 
The resultant friction force, **f is thus directly proportional to 
**f and consequently also to film thickness.   The value of **f 
can readily be assessed by determining the frictional force exerted 
on the knife while running over the previously stripped coating track 
under various external loadings. A straight line relationship is usually 
observed in a plot of **f against load ~<L>, having slope ~<k>, 
and **f Since the load ~<L>, under actual cutting conditions 
is caused by **f, it can be seen that **f   The measured force, 
~<H>, in cutting removal of coatings from their substrates consequently 
can be seen to be the sum of that force required to cut the 
coating, **f that due to the bluntness of the knife, **f, and that due 
to the friction between the bottom of the knife and the substrate, **f, 
or **f The first two forces are directly interrelated and depend 
upon film thickness, whereas **f is independent of these two and is a 
constant for a given knife/coating combination.   These theoretical 
relationships are more clearly illustrated in Fig& 7 and their 
sum can be seen to correlate in form with practical measurements made 
with the Hesiometer as illustrated in the first portion of Fig& 5 
for the cutting mechanism. 

#CHIPPING MECHANISM OF COHESIVE FAILURE# 

Although a large number of coatings systems, 
particularly at low thicknesses fail cohesively by the cutting mechanism, 
frequently a second type of cohesive failure may also take place. 
This is a chipping, dynamic type failure encountered with very brittle 
coatings resins or very highly pigmented films. This is shown in 
the photomicrograph of Fig& 8.   The basic difference between 
the continuous cutting mechanism and that of the chipping mechanism 
is that instead of shear occurring in the coating ahead of the knife continuously 
without fracture, rupture intermittently occurs along the 
shear plane. The detailed mechanisms of this type of failure have been 
studied extensively by MERCHANT for metal cutting, and the principles 
found can be directly applied to coatings.   By studying 
high speed movies made of this type of failure, the sequence of relationships 
as schematically illustrated in Fig& 9 could be observed.

In the first picture (9~a) the knife is just beginning to advance 
into the inclined surface which was left from the previous chip 
formation. In the next, the shear plane angle is high, and extends to 
the inclined work surface. With increasing advance of the knife into 
the coating the shear plane extends to the coatings surface and the shear 
angle rapidly decreases. Eventually, rupture occurs along the shear 
plane (9~e), and the cycle repeats itself.   MERCHANT 
has found that the same basic relationships which describe the geometry 
and force systems in the case of the cutting mechanism can also be 
applied to the discontinuous chip formation provided the proper values 
of instantaneous shear angle and instantaneous chip thickness or cross-sectional 
area are used. Consequently, if the shear angle ~|f 
is replaced by the rupture angle **f, the relationships as described in 
eqns& (1), (2), (4), and (6) will directly apply. 

#THE CRACKING 
MECHANISM#

Under equilibrium cutting conditions, the chip exerts a 
force **f against the coating and an equal opposite force **f against 
the knife in the plane of the substrate as shown in Fig& 6. If the 
rake angle ~|a of the knife is high enough and the friction angle 
~|t between the front of the knife and the back of the chip is low 
enough to give a positive value for **f, the resultant vector ~<R> 
will lie above the plane of the substrate.

Within only a few years, foamed plastics materials have managed 
to grow into an integral, and important, phase of the plastics industry- 
and the end is still not yet in sight. Urethane foam, as only 
one example, was only introduced commercially in this country in 1955. 
Yet last year's volume probably topped 100 million lb& and expectations 
are for a market of 275 million lb& by 1964. Many of the other 
foamed plastics, particularly the styrenes, show similar growth potential. 
And there are even newer foamed plastics that are yet to be 
evaluated. As this issue goes to press, for example, one manufacturer 
has announced an epoxy foam with outstanding buoyancy and impact strength; 
another reports that a cellular polypropylene, primarily for use 
in wire coating applications, is being investigated.   On the 
following pages, each of the major commercial foamed plastics is described 
in detail, as to properties, applications, and methods of processing.

It might be well to point out, however, some of the newer 
developments that have taken place within the past few months which 
might have a bearing on the future of the various foamed plastics involved. 
In urethane foams, for example, there has been a definite trend 
toward the polyether-type materials (which are now available in two-component 
rigid foam systems) and the emphasis is definitely on one-shot 
molding. Most manufacturers also seem to be concentrating on formulating 
fire-resistant or self-extinguishing grades of urethane foam that 
are aimed specifically at the burgeoning building markets. Urethane 
foam as an insulator is also coming in for a good deal of attention. 
In one outstanding example, Whirlpool Corp& found that by switching 
to urethane foam insulation, they could increase the storage capacity 
of gas refrigerators to make them competitive with electric models. 
Much interest has also been expressed in new techniques for processing 
the urethane foams, including spraying, frothing, and molding (see 
article, p& 391 for details). And in meeting the demands for urethane 
foam as a garment interlining, new adhesives and new methods of laminating 
foam to a substrate have been developed.   New techniques 
for automatic molding of expandable styrene beads have helped boost 
that particular material into a number of new consumer applications, including 
picnic chests, beverage coolers, flower pots, and flotation-type 
swimming toys. Two other end-use areas which contributed to expandable 
styrene's growth during the year were packaging (molded inserts 
replacing complicated cardboard units) and foamed-core building panels. 
Extruded expandable styrene film or sheet- claimed to be competitive 
price-wise with paper- also showed much potential, particularly 
for packaging. Sandwich panels for building utility shelters that 
consist of kraft paper skins and rigid styrene foam cores also aroused 
interest in the construction field.   In vinyl foam, the big news 
was the development of techniques for coating fabrics with the material 
(for details, see P& 395). Better "hand", a more luxurious 
feel, and better insulating properties were claimed to be the result. 
Several companies also saw possibilities in using the technique for 
extruding or molding vinyl products with a slight cellular core that 
would reduce costs yet would not affect physical properties of the end 
product to any great extent.   Readers interested in additional 
information on foams are referred to the Foamed Plastics Chart appearing 
in the Technical Data section and to the list of references which 
appears below. 

#URETHANE FOAMS#

@ Since the mid 1950s, when 
urethane foam first made its appearance in the American market, growth 
has been little short of fantastic. Present estimates are that production 
topped the 100-million-lb& mark in 1960 (85 to 90 million 
lb& for flexible, 10 or 11 million lb& for rigid); by 1965, production 
may range from 200 to 350 million lb& for flexible and from 115 
to 150 million lb& for rigid. The markets that have started to open 
up for the foam in the past year or so seem to justify the expectations. 
Furniture upholstery, as just one example, can easily take millions 
of pounds; foamed refrigerator insulation is under intensive evaluation 
by every major manufacturer; and use of the foam for garment 
interlining is only now getting off the ground, with volume potential 
in the offing. _BASIC CHEMISTRY_ Urethane foams are, basically, 
reaction products of hydroxyl-rich materials and polyisocyanates (usually 
tolylene diisocyanate). Blowing can be either one of two types- 
carbon dioxide gas generated by the reaction of water on the polyisocyanate 
or mechanical blowing through the use of a low-boiling liquid 
such as a fluorinated hydrocarbon.   The most important factor 
in determining what properties the end-product will have is quite naturally 
the type of hydroxyl-rich compound that is used in its production. 
Originally, the main types used were various compositions of polyesters. 
These are still in wide use today, particularly in semi-rigid 
formulations, for such applications as cores for sandwich-type structural 
panels, foamed-in-place insulation, automotive safety padding, arm 
rests, etc&. More recently, polyethers- again in varied compositions, 
molecular weights, and branching- have come into use at first 
for the flexible foams, just lately for the rigids. The polyether glycols 
are claimed to give flexible urethanes a spring-back action which 
is much desired in cushioning.   Although the first polyether foams 
on the market had to be produced by the two-step prepolymer method, 
today, thanks to new catalysts, they can be produced by a one-shot 
technique. It is possible that the polyether foams may soon be molded 
on a production basis in low-cost molds with more intricate contours 
and with superior properties to latex foam.   The polyester urethane 
foam is generally produced with adipic acid polyesters; the polyether 
group generally consists of foams produced with polypropylene glycol 
or polypropylene glycol modified with a triol. _ONE SHOT VS& 
PREPOLYMER_ In the prepolymer system, the isocyanate and resin are 
mixed anhydrously and no foaming occurs. The foaming can be accomplished 
at some future time at a different location by the addition of the 
correct proportion of catalyst in solution. In one-shot, the isocyanate, 
polyester or polyether resin, catalyst, and other additives are 
mixed directly and a foam is produced immediately. Basically, this means 
that simpler processing equipment (the mixture has good flowing characteristics) 
and less external heat (the foaming reaction is exothermic 
and develops internal heat) are required in one-shot foaming, although, 
at the same time, the problems of controlling the conditions of 
one-shot foaming are critical ones. _PROPERTIES_ Most commercial 
uses of urethane foams require densities between 2 and 30 lb&/cu& 
ft& for rigid foams, between 1 and 3 lb&/cu& ft& for flexible 
foams. This latter figure compares with latex foam rubber at an average 
of 5.5 lb&/cu& ft& in commercial grades. _COMPRESSION STRENGTH:_ 
Graph in Fig& 1, p& 392, indicates how the ratio of 
compressive strength to density varies as the latter is increased or 
decreased. The single curve line represents a specific formulation in 
a test example. By varying the formula, this curve may be moved forward 
or backward along the coordinates to produce any desired compression 
strength/density ratio. _THERMAL CONDUCTIVITY AND TEMPERATURE RESISTANCE:_ 
In flexible urethane foams, we are referring to the range 
between the highest and lowest temperatures under which the materials' 
primary performance remains functionally useful. In temperature 
resistance, this quality is usually related to specific properties, 
e&g&, flexural, tensile strengths, etc&. Thermal conductivity is 
directly traceable to the material's porous, air-cell construction 
which effectively traps air or a gas in the maze of minute bubbles which 
forms its composition. These air or gas bubbles make highly functional 
thermal barriers. The ~K factor, a term used to denote the rate 
of heat transmission through a material (B&t&u&/sq& ft& 
of material/hr&/`F&/in& of thickness) ranges from 0.24 to 0.28 
for flexible urethane foams and from 0.12 to 0.16 for rigid urethane 
foams, depending upon the formulation, density, cell size, and nature 
of blowing agents used. Table /1,, p& 394, shows a comparison of 
~K factor ratings of a number of commercial insulating materials 
in common use, including two different types of rigid urethane foam. _FLEXURAL 
STRENGTH:_ This term refers to the ability of a material 
to resist bending stress and is determined by measuring the load required 
to cause failure by bending. The higher-density urethane semi-rigid 
foams usually have stronger flex fatigue resistance, i&e&, the 
12 lb&/cu& ft& foam has 8 times the flexural strength of the 
3 lb&/cu& ft& density. Note that flexural strength is not always 
improved by simply increasing the density, nor is the change always 
proportional from one formulation to another. Where flexural strength 
is an important factor, be sure that your urethane foam processor is 
aware of it. _TENSILE STRENGTH:_ This property refers to the greatest 
longitudinal stress or tension a material can endure without tearing 
apart. Like compression strength of urethane foams, it has a direct 
relationship to formulation. Exceptional tensile strength is another 
of urethane foam's strong features. Figure 2, above, shows the 
aging properties of urethane foams as determined by the percent of change 
in tensile strength during exposure to ultra-violet light. _PROCESSING 
URETHANES_ There are many ways of producing a foamed urethane 
product. The foam can be made into slab stock and cut to shape, it 
can be molded, it can be poured-in-place, it can be applied by spray 
guns, etc&.   Slab stock is still one of the most important forms 
of urethane end-product in use today. Basically, the foam machines 
that produce such stock consist of two or more pumping units, a variable 
mixer, a nozzle carriage assembly, and, in many cases, a conveyor 
belt to transport and contain the liquid during the reaction process 
and until it solidifies into foam. The ingredients are fed from tanks 
through a hose and into the mixer at a predetermined rate. The mixing 
head moves back and forth slowly across the width of the receptacle. 
It only takes a few minutes for the foaming action to be completed 
and after a short cure, the material can be cut into lengths as desired.

Much has been done in the way of ingenious slitters to fabricate 
the slab stock into finished products. Profile cutting machines 
are available which can split foam to any desired thickness and produce 
sine, triangle, trapezoid, and other profiles in variable heights, 
dimensions, etc&. The convoluted sheets can be combined to attain 
certain cushioning effects mechanically rather than chemically. Also 
available is a slitter which "peels" the inside of a folded block 
of foam and can be used to slit continuous sheets up to 300 yd& in 
length, down to 1/16 in& thick.   The low cost and ease of fabrication 
of the dies for three-dimensional foam cutting plus the wide 
variety of shapes, dimensions, and contours that can be tailor-made to 
customer requirements has made the technique useful for producing case 
liners, materials handling containers, packaging and cushioning devices, 
and such novelties as soap dishes, toys, head rests, arch supports, 
and gas pedal covers. _MOLDING_ Although slab stock appeared 
first, it soon became apparent that for the production of cushions with 
irregular shapes, crowned contours, or rounded edges, the cutting of 
slab stock is a wasteful and uneconomical process. Only by resorting 
to molding techniques can the cushion manufacturer hope to compete satisfactorily 
in the established cushion market.   The closed molding 
of flexible urethane foams has been a problem ever since the introduction 
of the material (molding in open molds was more feasible). 
Satisfactory methods for polyester foams and even prepolymer polyether 
foams were never fully achieved. Closed molding generally resulted 
in parts weighing more (because of higher density) than parts fabricated 
from free-blown foams. This counteracted the gain from having no scrap 
loss. In addition, there were difficulties with the flow and spreading 
of the foam mixture over the mold surface, trouble with lack of 
gel strength in the rising foam, and problems of splits. The introduction 
of one-shot polyether foam systems, aided by the development of 
new catalysts, helped to alleviate some of the problems of closed molding. 
While there are still many bugs to be ironed out, the technique 
is fast developing. _OTHER TECHNIQUES_ Simple systems are available 
that make it possible for urethane foam components to be poured, pumped, 
etc&, into a void where they foam up to fill the void. In a 
typical application- the making of rigid urethane foam sandwich panels- 
an amount of foam mixture calculated to expand 10 to 20% more 
than the volume of the panel is poured into the panel void and the top 
of the panel is locked in place by a jig. 
Temperature of the wash and rinse waters is maintained at 85-90`F& 
(29-32`C&). The top rolls are loaded with 40 lbs&. Sixty 
lbs& loading is possible but 40 lbs& is adequate.   The suds 
box drain is arranged at the start to deliver into the raised main drain 
pipe (thus returning suds to soap box) and the machine is started. 
The 160-ml& bath containing the calculated amount of detergent is 
applied slowly and directly to the running specimen. Washing is continued 
for 30 minutes or for a period of time sufficient to allow 100 nips 
or passes through the squeeze rolls. At the conclusion of the washing, 
8 liters of water at 90`F& (32`C&) are automatically metered 
from the rinse reservoir to the washing tubs, 4 liters to each tub. 
This operation requires from 10 to 12 minutes. During the rinsing 
operation the volume in the tubs gradually increases until overflow 
from the main drain begins. At this point the drains are readjusted so 
that the suds box drain will discharge directly into the waste line 
and the main tub drain is set at the 2-1/2 mark on the drain gauge. When 
all of the rinse water has passed from the reservoir to the tubs the 
main drains are lowered to permit complete draining of the tubs. The 
run is complete when all the water has drained off into the waste line.

By this procedure rinsing progresses in two stages, first 
by dilution until the time when the drains are separated and thereafter 
by displacement of the soil-bearing liquor by clean rinse water, since 
soiled liquor squeezed from the specimens at the nip passes directly 
to waste from the suds box drains. This method of rinsing appears 
to produce maximum cleansing with minimum soil redeposition. 

#SUGGESTED 
EVALUATION AND CLASSIFICATION#

Evaluation may be made on 
either a soil-removal or a grease-removal basis as desired. A 
reflectance-measuring 
instrument may be desirable to measure cleaning, whereas 
Soxhlet extraction is necessary to measure grease removal. 

#PURPOSE AND SCOPE#

This test method is intended for determining 
the dimensional changes of woven or knitted fabrics, made of fibers other 
than wool, to be expected when the cloth is subjected to laundering 
procedures commonly used in the commercial laundry and the home. Four 
washing test procedures are established, varying in severity from very 
severe to very mild, and are intended to cover the range of practical 
washing from commercial procedure to hand washing. Five drying test 
procedures are established to cover the range of drying techniques 
used in the home and commercial laundry. Three methods for determining 
the dimensional restorability characteristics are established for those 
textiles which require restoration by ironing or wearing after laundering. 
These tests are not accelerated and must be repeated to evaluate 
dimensional changes after repeated launderings.   Table /1, 
summarizes all of the various washing, drying, and restoration procedures 
available. The person using these tests must determine which combination 
of procedures is practical for any specific item in order to 
evaluate the dimensional changes of textile fabrics or garments after 
laundering procedures commonly used in the home or commercial laundry. 
It is possible to identify the test procedure completely with a code 
consisting of a Roman Numeral, a letter, and an Arabic number. For 
example Test /3, ~E 1 refers to a specimen which has been washed 
by procedure "/3," (at 160`F& for a total of 60 minutes 
in the machine, has been dried in a tumble dryer by procedure "~E" 
and has been subjected to restorative forces on the Tension 
Presser by procedure "1". 

#PRINCIPLE#

A specimen or garment 
is washed in a cylindrical reversing wash wheel, dried and subjected 
to restorative forces where necessary. Temperature and time of agitation 
in the wash wheel are varied to obtain different degrees of severity. 
Drying procedures and application of restorative force procedures 
are varied to conform with end-use handling during home or commercial 
laundering. Distances marked on the specimen in warp and filling 
directions (or wales and courses for knitted fabrics) are measured before 
and after laundering. 

#APPARATUS AND MATERIALS#

_WASH WHEEL- 
CYLINDRICAL WASH WHEEL OF THE REVERSING TYPE._ The wheel (cage) 
is 20 to 24 inches inside diameter and 20 to 24 inches inside length. 
There 
are three fins each approximately three inches wide extending the full 
length of the inside of the wheel. One fin is located every 120` 
around the inside diameter of the wheel. The wash wheel rotates at a 
speed of 30 revolutions per minute, making five to ten revolutions before 
reversing. The water inlets are large enough to permit filling the 
wheel to an eight-inch level in less than two minutes, and the outlet 
is large enough to permit discharge of this same amount of water in 
less than two minutes. The machine is equipped with a pipe for injecting 
live steam that is capable of raising the temperature of water at 
an eight-inch level from 110` to 140`F& (38` to 60`C&) in 
less than two minutes. The machine shall contain an opening for the 
insertion of a thermometer or other equivalent equipment for determining 
the temperature of the water during the washing and rinsing procedures. 
It is equipped with an outside water gauge that will indicate the 
level of the water in the wheel.   A domestic automatic washer 
that will give equivalent results may be used. The wash wheel is the 
equipment preferred for the test. _PRESSING EQUIPMENT- FLAT-BED 
PRESS MEASURING 24 INCHES BY 50 INCHES OR LARGER._ Any flat-bed press 
capable of pressing a specimen 22 inches square may be used as an 
alternative. The flat-bed press is maintained at a temperature not less 
than 275`F& (135`C&). _DRYER- DRYER OF THE ROTARY TUMBLE 
TYPE, HAVING A CYLINDRICAL BASKET APPROXIMATELY 30 INCHES IN DIAMETER 
AND 24 INCHES IN LENGTH AND ROTATING AT APPROXIMATELY 35 R&P&M&._ 
The dryer is provided with a means of maintaining a drying temperature 
of 120`-160`F& (49`-71`C&), measured in the exhaust 
vent as close as possible to the drying chamber. _SCREEN DRYING 
RACKS- 16-MESH SCREENING (SARAN OR VELON)._ _DRYING ROOM-FACILITIES 
FOR DRIP- OR LINE-DRYING._ _EXTRACTOR- CENTRIFUGAL EXTRACTOR 
OF THE LAUNDRY-TYPE WITH A PERFORATED BASKET, APPROXIMATELY 11 
INCHES DEEP BY 17 INCHES IN DIAMETER, WITH AN OPERATING SPEED OF APPROXIMATELY 
1,500 R&P&M&._ _PEN AND INK, INDELIBLE- OR OTHER 
SUITABLE MARKING DEVICE._ _MEASURING SCALE-._ _SOAP, NEUTRAL 
CHIP- FED& SPEC& ~P ~S 566 OR ~ASTM ~D-496._ 
_SOFTENER- E&G& SODIUM METAPHOSPHATE OR SODIUM HEXAMETAPHOSPHATE 
(IF NEEDED IN HARD WATER AREAS)._ _DETERGENT, SYNTHETIC- 
ALKYLARYSULFONATE TYPE._ _FLATIRON, ELECTRIC- APPROXIMATELY 
3 LB&_ _TENSION PRESSER- CONSISTING OF A PADDED IRONING BOARD 
FROM WHICH EXTEND CLAMPING MEMBERS ON ALL FOUR SIDES._ Two of the 
clamps are fixed to the edges of the board whereas two clamps travel on 
guide rails opposite the fixed clamps. The movable clamps travel on 
carriages which ride the rails and are drawn by dead-weight loading. 
Sets of weights are provided so that the load can be selected in the 
range of 1/2 to 4 pounds. A perforated aluminum plate, used to provide 
the drying surface, is heated by means of a flatiron. A special template 
is furnished with the apparatus to enable marking a specimen for 
a central measuring area and the fabric extensions to the clamps (see 
Fig& 2). _KNIT SHRINKAGE GAUGE- CONSISTING OF A SET OF 20 MOUNTING 
PINS SET IN GUIDES IN RADIAL SLOTS (FIG&1)._ Each pin is individually 
sprung to a tensioning member which is driven outwardly in 
the slot. The springs have an extension of 1 inch at **f tension. The 
tensioning members have a common drive so that the application of restorative 
force takes place simultaneously in all directions in the plane 
of the test specimen. The minimum diameter of the pin frame in the 
collapsed state is 11 inches and the maximum diameter in the freely 
extended state (unloaded) is 14 inches. The surface of the apparatus 
in contact with the test specimen is uncluttered and polished so as 
to be as friction-free as possible. 

#TEST SPECIMENS#

The preparation 
of test specimens will vary depending upon the type of dimensional 
restorability procedure (if any) to be used.   Three specimens 
for each sample to be tested are required in order to arrive at a satisfactory 
average of performance. This is especially true for knitted 
fabrics.   Specimens are allowed to reach moisture equilibrium with 
a standard atmosphere of **f and **f and then laid out without tension 
on a flat, polished surface, care being taken that the fabric is 
free from wrinkles or creases. Fabrics that are badly distorted in their 
unlaundered state due to faulty finishing may give deceptive dimensional 
change results when laundered by any procedure. This also holds 
true 
if restorative forces are applied. Therefore, it is recommended that 
in such cases the sample be replaced, or if used, the results of dimensional 
change or dimensional restorability tests be considered as indicative 
only.   Generally, it is necessary to mark distances on 
a specimen (or garment) in both lengthwise and widthwise directions and 
to measure before and after laundering. The distances may be marked 
with indelible ink and a fine-point pen, by sewing fine threads into 
the fabric, or by a specially designed stamping machine. The marked distances 
are parallel to the respective yarns. Usually, the greater the 
original distances marked, the greater will be the accuracy of the 
test. Distances of less than 10 inches are not recommended. _WOVEN 
FABRICS TO BE DRIED BY PROCEDURE ~B (FLAT-BED PRESSED) OR RESTORED BY 
PROCEDURE 3 (HAND IRONING):_ The specimen of fabric is a rectangle 
at least 22 by 22 inches, except for cloth narrower than 22 inches, 
in which case the specimen is the entire width of the fabric. Three 
distances, each at least 18 inches, are measured and marked off parallel 
to each of the warp and filling directions. The distances are at 
least two inches from any edge of the specimen. _WOVEN OR WARP KNITTED 
FABRICS TO BE SUBJECTED TO RESTORATIVE PROCEDURE 1 (TENSION PRESSER)._ 
Each specimen is at least 25 inches by 25 inches. Place the template 
(Fig& 2) on the fabric so that the sides of the 10 inch square 
cut out of the template are parallel to the warp and filling for woven 
fabrics, or the wales and courses for knitted fabrics, and so that the 
same amount of fabric extends beyond the edges of the template on all 
sides. Mark the specimen at the outer edges of the template with pen 
and <indelible ink;> also place three dots on the specimen at each 
side of the 10 inch square, one dot at midpoint, and one at approximately 
1/2 inch from each corner. Measure and record. _CIRCULAR KNITTED 
FABRICS TO BE SUBJECTED TO RESTORATIVE PROCEDURE 2, (KNIT SHRINKAGE 
GAUGE)._ Each specimen is approximately 16 inches square. The markings 
consist of a centrally located 10 inch diameter measuring circle 
and a 14 inch diameter circle of 20 dots equidistantly spaced (See 
Figure 1). _GARMENTS._ Critical measurements in length and width 
directions should be taken before and after washing, drying, and restorative 
procedures. 

#PROCEDURE#

_WASHING-_ The washing 
procedures are summarized in Table /2,.   Place the specimen 
in the wash wheel with sufficient other similar fabric to make a dry 
load of **f pounds. Start the wash wheel and note the time. Immediately 
add water at 100-105`F& (38-43`C&) to the wheel to a level 
of **f inches; this level will be increased by condensed steam. 
When this water level has been reached, inject steam into the wheel until 
the temperature reaches that shown in Column ~B of Table /2,. 
Add sufficient soap (and softener if required to counteract hard 
water) to furnish a good running suds, or if desired use a synthetic detergent. 
_TEST /1,_- Stop the wash wheel at the end of the 
time 
shown in Column ~A of Table /2, and drain. Refill the machine 
to a level of **f inches with water at 100-109` F& (38-43` C&) 
and start the machine. Inject steam, if necessary, to reach the 
temperature shown in Column ~D of Table /2,. Again stop the machine 
at the end of the time shown in Column ~C of Table /2,. 
This procedure is repeated for the second rinse, using the temperatures 
and time shown in Columns ~F and ~E of Table /2,. _TESTS 
/2,, /3,, 
AND /4,._- Run the machine continuously until completion 
of the test. Drain off the soap solution of the suds cycle at such 
a time that the wheel has become substantially empty of soap and water 
at the end of the time shown in Column ~A of Table /2,, measured 
from the time the wash wheel was started. Refill the machine to a 
level of **f inches with water at 100-109` F& (38-43` C&). 
When this water level has been reached, inject steam until the temperature 
is that shown in Column ~D. Drain off the water at such a time 
that the wheel has become substantially empty of water at the end 
of the sum of the times shown in Columns ~A and ~C, measured from 
the time the wash wheel was started. Immediately refill to a level 
of **f inches with water at 100-109` F& (38-43` C&). When 
this water level has been reached inject steam until the temperature is 
that shown in Column ~F. Drain off the water at such a time that 
the wheel has become substantially empty of water at the end of the 
sum of the times shown in Columns ~A, ~C, and ~E, measured from 
the time the wash wheel was started.

High-gain, photoelectronic image intensification is applied under 
conditions of low incident light levels whenever the integration time 
required by a sensor or recording instrument exceeds the limits of 
practicability. Examples of such situations are (aerial) night reconnaissance, 
the recording of radioactive tracers in live body tissues, 
special radiography in medical or industrial applications, track recording 
of high energy particles, etc&.   High-gain photoelectronic 
image intensification may be achieved by several methods; some of 
these are listed below: _(A)_ Cascading single stages by coupling 
lens systems, _(B)_ Channel-type, secondary emission image intensifier, 
_(C)_ Image intensifier based upon the "multipactor" 
principle, _(D)_ Transmission secondary electron multiplication 
image intensifiers (~TSEM tubes), _(E)_ Cascading of single 
stages, enclosed in one common envelope.   Cascading single stages 
by <coupling lens systems> is rather inefficient as the lens systems 
limit the obtainable gain quite severely. Channel-type image intensifiers 
are capable of achieving high-gain values; suffer, however, 
from an inherently low resolution. Image intensifiers based upon 
the multipactor principle appear to hold promise as far as obtainable 
resolution is concerned. However, the unavoidable low-duty cycle restricts 
the effective gain. ~TSEM tubes have been constructed showing 
high gain and resolution. However, electrostatic focus, important 
for many applications, has not been realized for these devices. Resolution 
limitations with electrostatic focus might be anticipated due to 
chromatic aberrations. Furthermore, the thin film dynodes appear to 
have a natural diameter limitation wherever a mesh support cannot be 
tolerated.   <Cascaded> single stages enclosed by a <common envelope> 
have been constructed with high gain and high resolution. These 
tubes may differ both in the choice of the electron optical system 
and in the design of the coupling members. The electron optical system 
may be either a magnetic or electrostatic one. The magnification 
may be smaller, equal, or larger than unity.   An electrostatic 
system suffers generally from image plane curvature leading to defocusing 
in the peripheral image region if a flat viewing screen (or interstage 
coupler) is utilized, while a magnetic system requires accurate 
adjustment of the solenoid, which is heavy and bulky. As it will be discussed 
later, peripheral defocusing can be improved on by utilizing 
curved fiber couplers. It should be noted, however, that the paraxial 
resolution is quite similar for both electron optical systems. 
It is felt that fiber-coupled double- (and multi-) stage image intensifiers 
will gain considerable importance in the future. Therefore, we 
shall consider in this paper the theoretical gain and resolution capabilities 
of such tubes. The luminous efficiency and resolution of single 
stages, fiber couplers, and finally of the composite tube will be 
computed.   It will be shown theoretically that the high image 
intensification obtainable with such a tube and contact photography permits 
the utilization of extremely low incident light levels. The effect 
of device and quantum noise, associated with such low input levels, 
will be described.   After these theoretical considerations, constructional 
details of a fiber-coupled, double-stage X-ray image 
intensifier will be discussed. Measured performance characteristics 
for this experimental tube will be listed.   The conclusion shall 
be reached that fiber-coupled, double-stage tubes represent a sensible 
and practical approach to high-gain image intensification. 

#BASIC 
DESIGN OF A FIBER-COUPLED, DOUBLE-STAGE IMAGE INTENSIFIER#

The tube 
design which forms the basis of the theoretical discussion shall 
be described now. The electron optical system (see fig& 14-1) is 
based in principle on the focusing action of concentric spherical cathode 
and anode surfaces. The inner [anode] sphere is pierced, elongated 
into a cup, and terminated by the phosphor screen. The photoelectrons 
emitted from a circular segment of the cathode sphere are focused 
by the positive lens action of the two concentric spheres, pass through 
the [negative] lens formed by the anode aperture, and impinge 
upon the cathodoluminescent viewing screen. The cylindrical focusing 
electrode permits adjustment of the positive lens part by varying the 
focusing potential. The anode potential codetermines the gain, ~<G>, 
and magnification, ~<M>, of the stage.   Both the photocathode 
and the image plane of such an electrode configuration are curved 
concave as seen from the anode aperture. The field-flattening property 
of the biconcave fiber coupler can be utilized to alleviate the 
peripheral resolution losses resulting with a flat phosphor-screen or 
coupling member. For the same reason, the output fiber plate is planoconcave, 
its exposed flat side permitting contact photography if a permanent 
record is desired. As it will be shown later, the field-flattening 
properties of the interstage and output fiber coupler comprise indeed 
the main advantage of such a design.   The second photocathode 
and both phosphor surfaces are deposited on the fiber plate substrates. 
The photocathode sensitivities ~<S>, phosphor efficiencies 
~<P>, and anode potentials ~<V> of the individual stages shall 
be distinguished by means of subscripts /1, and /2, in the text, 
where required. Both stages are assumed to have unity magnification. 

#THEORETICAL DISCUSSION OF FLUX GAIN#

_FLUX GAIN OF A SINGLE 
STAGE_ The luminous gain of a single stage with **f (flux gain) is, 
to a first approximation, given by the product of the photocathode 
sensitivity ~<S> (amp/lumen), the anode potential ~<V> (volts), 
and the phosphor conversion efficiency ~<P> (lumen-watt). In 
general, ~<P> is a function of ~<V> and the current density, 
but it shall here be assumed as a constant.   The luminous 
efficiency **f of a photocathode depends on the maximum radiant 
sensitivity **f and on the spectral distribution of the incident light 
**f by the relation: **f where **f **h normalized radiant photocathode 
sensitivity. **f **h standard visibility function. The luminous flux 
gain of a single stage is given by: **f If the input light distribution 
falls beyond the visible range, **f as expected, since **f. Such 
cases are not considered here. _EFFICIENCY OF FIBER COUPLERS_ 
The efficiency of fiber optics plates depends on four factors: _(A)_ 
numerical aperture (N&A&). _(B)_ end (Fresnel reflection) 
losses (~<R>). 
_(C)_ internal losses (I&L&). _(D)_ 
packing efficiency (F&R&). The numerical aperture of the fibers 
is given by: **f where **f.   The angle **f is measured in 
the medium of index **f. Settled phosphors, as generally used in image 
intensifiers, have low optical contact with the substrate surface, 
hence **f shall be assumed. The numerical aperture should be in general 
close to unity. This condition can be satisfied, e&g&, with **f 
and **f or equivalent glass combinations.   A sufficiently good 
approximation for determining the end reflection losses ~<R> 
can be 
obtained from the angle independent Fresnel formula: **f For phosphor 
to fiber and fiber to air surfaces, and assuming **f, we obtain 
**f percent. This value may be reduced to 4.6 percent by means of a (very 
thin) glass layer of index 1.5. Hence, the **f factor for the output 
fiber coupler is **f.   As the index of refraction of photosensitive 
surfaces of the ~SbCs-type lies around 2, the Fresnel losses 
at the fiber-photocathode interface are about 0.5 percent and the 
**f factor for the interstage coupler is 0.95. It might be anticipated 
that multiple coatings will reduce end reflection losses even further.

The internal losses are due to absorption and the small but 
finite losses suffered in the numerous internal reflections due to 
deviations from the prescribed, cylindrical fiber cross-section and minute 
imperfections of the core-jacket interface. These losses depend 
on fiber diameter and length, absorption coefficient, the mean value of 
the loss per internal reflection and last but not least, on the angular 
distribution of the incident light. Explicit expressions (integral 
averages) are given in the literature. Lacking reliable data for some 
of the variables, we are relying on experimental data of about 20 percent 
internal losses for 1/4-inch long, small (5-10~|m) diameter 
fibers. This relatively high value is probably due to the small fiber 
diameters increasing the number of internal reflections. Since we are 
considering here relatively small diameter (1-1.5 inches) fiber plates, 
their average thickness can be kept below 1/4 inch and their internal 
losses may be assumed as 15 percent (per plate).   The packing 
efficiency, F&R&, of fiber plates did not receive much attention 
in the literature, probably as it is high for the larger fibers generally 
used, until rather recently. For circular fibers in a closely 
packed hexagonal array, the packing efficiency is given by: **f where 
**f, and 0.906 is the ratio of the area of a circle to that of the 
circumscribed hexagon. For the small diameter fibers now technically 
feasible and required for about 100 **f resolution, **f. The cladding 
thickness is about 0.5~|m, hence, **f and **f.   Thus, 
the efficiency ~|t couplers is given by- **f or approximately 
50 percent each.   It must be remembered that the fiber plates replace 
a glass window and a (mica) membrane, in addition to an optical 
output lens system. The efficiency **f of an **f lens at the magnification 
**f is: **f Neglecting absorption, the end losses of the coupling 
membrane and the output window **f would be 6 percent and 8 percent. 
Thus, the combined efficiency of the elements replaced by the two 
fiber plates (with a combined efficiency of 0.25) is 0.043 or <about 
six times less than that of the two fiber plates>. _GAIN OF FIBER 
COUPLED IMAGE INTENSIFIERS_ Including the brightness gain **f due 
to the **f area demagnification, the overall gain of a fiber coupled double 
stage image intensifier is: **f It is obvious that the careful 
choice of photocathode which maximizes **f for a given input ~<E> 
(in the case of the second stage, for the first phosphor screen emission) 
is very important. The same consideration should govern the choice 
of the second-stage phosphor screen for matching with the spectral 
sensitivity of the ultimate sensor (e&g&, photographic emulsion).

We have evaluated the "matching integrals" for two types 
of photocathodes (~S-11 and ~S-20) and three types of light input. 
The input light distributions considered are ~P-11 and ~P-20 
phosphor emission and the so-called "night light" (N&L&) 
as given by H&W& Babcock and J& J& Johnson. The integrals 
(in @ units) are listed in table 14-/1, below: 

#THEORETICAL 
DISCUSSION OF PARAXIAL DEVICE RESOLUTION#

_RESOLUTION LIMITATIONS 
IN A SINGLE STAGE_ The resolution limitations for a single stage are 
given by the inherent resolution of the electron optical system as 
well as the resolution capabilities of the cathodoluminescent viewing 
screen.   The resolution capabilities of an electrostatic system 
depend on both the choice of magnification and chromatic aberrations. 
It has been stated previously that a minifying electrostatic system yields 
a lower resolution than a magnifying system or a system with unity 
magnification.   Furthermore, the chromatic aberrations depend 
on the chosen high voltage. In general, a high anode voltage reduces 
chromatic aberrations and thus increases the obtainable resolution.

The luminous gain of the discussed tube was calculated from Eq& 
(6) for the 16 possible combinations of ~S-11 and ~S-20 photocathodes 
and ~P-11 and ~P-20 phosphor screens, for night light 
and ~P-20 light input. (The ~P-20 input is of interest because 
it corresponds roughly to the light emission of conventional X-ray 
fluorescent screens). The following efficiencies obtained from ~JEDEC 
and ~RCA specifications were used: **f   The following 
table (14-/2,) lists the (luminous) gain values computed according 
to Eq& (6) with **f:   The possibility of a space charge 
blowup of the screen crossover of the elementary electron bundles has 
been pointed out. It is obvious that such an influence can only be 
expected in the final stage of an image intensifier at rather high output 
levels. Space charge influences will also decrease at increased 
voltages.   Electrostatic systems of the pseudo-symmetric type have 
been tested for resolution capabilities by applying electronography. 
A resolution of 70-80 line-pairs per millimeter appears to be feasible.

The inherent resolution of a cathodoluminescent phosphor 
screen decreases with increasingly aggregate thickness (with increasing 
anode voltage), decreases with decreasing porosity (thus the advantage 
of cathodophoretic phosphor deposition) and might be impaired by the 
normally used aluminum mirror. Thus, in general, elementary light 
optical effects, light scatter, and electron scatter determine the obtainable 
resolution limit. It should be noted that photoluminescence, 
due to "Bremsstrahlung" generated within the viewing screen by electron 
impact, appears to be important only if anode voltages in excess 
of 30 ~KV are utilized. It has been stated that settled cathodoluminescent 
phosphor screens may have a limiting resolution of 60 **f 
at high voltage values of approximately 20 ~KV. For the further discussion, 
we shall thus assume an electron optical resolution of 80 **f 
and phosphor screen resolution of 60 **f. 
The set of all decisions is called the operating policy or, more simply, 
the policy. An optimal policy is one which in some sense gets the 
best out of the process as a whole by maximizing the value of the product. 
There are thus three components to an optimal design problem: 
_(1)_ The specification of the state of the process stream; _(2)_ 
The specification of the operating variables and the transformation 
they effect; _(3)_ The specification of the objective function 
of which the optimization is desired. For a chemical process 
the 
first of these might involve the concentrations of the different chemical 
species, and the temperature or pressure of the stream. For the 
second we might have to choose the volume of reactor or amount of cooling 
to be supplied; the way in which the transformation of state depends 
on the operating variables for the main types of reactors is discussed 
in the next chapter. The objective function is some measure of 
the increase in value of the stream by processing; it is the subject 
of Chapter 4.   The essential characteristic of an optimal policy 
when the state of the stream is transformed in a sequence of stages 
with no feedback was first isolated by Bellman. He recognized that 
whatever transformation may be effected in the first stage of an ~<R>-stage 
process, the remaining stages must use an optimal **f-stage policy 
with respect to the state resulting from the first stage, if there 
is to be any chance of optimizing the complete process. Moreover, by 
systematically varying the operating conditions in the first stage and 
always using the optimal **f-stage policy for the remaining stages, 
we shall eventually find the optimal policy for all ~R stages. Proceeding 
in this way, from one to two and from two to three stages, we 
may gradually build up the policy for any number. At each step of the 
calculation the operating variables of only one stage need be varied.

To see how important this economy is, let us suppose that there 
are ~<m> operating variables at each stage and that the state 
is specified by ~<n> variables; then the search for the maximum 
at any one stage will require a number of operations of order **f (where 
~<a> is some number not unreasonably large). To proceed from 
one stage to the next a sufficient number of feed states must be investigated 
to allow of interpolation; this number will be of the order 
of **f. If, however, we are seeking the optimal ~<R>-stage policy 
for a given feed state, only one search for a maximum is required at 
the final step. Thus a number of operations of the order of **f are 
required. If all the operating variables were varied simultaneously, 
**f operations would be required to do the same job, and as ~<R> 
increases this increases very much more rapidly than the number of operations 
required by the dynamic program. But even more important than 
this is the fact that the direct search by simultaneously varying all 
operating conditions has produced only one optimal policy, namely, that 
for the given feed state and ~<R> stages. In contrast, the dynamic 
program produces this policy and a whole family of policies for 
any smaller number of stages. If the problem is enlarged to require 
a complete coverage of feed states, **f operations are needed by the dynamic 
program and **f by the direct search. But **f is vastly larger 
than ~<R>. No optimism is more baseless than that which believes 
that the high speed of modern digital computers allows for use of the 
crudest of methods in searching out a result. Suppose that **f, and 
that the average operation requires only **f sec&. Then the dynamic 
program would require about a minute whereas the direct search would 
take 
more than three millennia!   The principle of optimality thus 
brings a vital organization into the search for the optimal policy of 
a multistage decision process. Bellman (1957) has annunciated in the 
following terms:   "An optimal policy has the property that 
whatever the initial state and initial decision are, the remaining decisions 
must constitute an optimal policy with respect to the state resulting 
from the first decision".   This is the principle which 
we will invoke in every case to set up a functional equation. It appears 
in a form that is admirably suited to the powers of the digital 
computer. At the same time, every device that can be employed to reduce 
the number of variables is of the greatest value, and it is one of 
the attractive features of dynamic programming that room is left for 
ingenuity in using the special features of the problem to this end. 

#2.2 
THE DISCRETE DETERMINISTIC PROCESS#

Consider the process illustrated 
in Fig& 2.1, consisting of ~<R> distinct stages. These 
will be numbered in the direction opposite to the flow of the process 
stream, so that stage ~<r> is the ~<r>th stage from the end. 
Let the state of the stream leaving stage ~<r> be denoted by a vector 
**f and the operating variables of stage ~<r> by **f. Thus 
**f denotes the state of the feed to the ~<R>-stage process, and 
**f the state of the product from the last stage. Each stage transforms 
the state **f of its feed to the state **f in a way that depends on 
the operating variables **f. We write this **f. This transformation 
is uniquely determined by **f and we therefore speak of the process 
as deterministic. In practical situations there will be restrictions 
on the admissible operating conditions, and we regard the vectors as belonging 
to a fixed and bounded set ~<S>. The set of vectors **f 
constitutes the operating policy or, more briefly, the policy, and a 
policy is admissible if all the **f belong to ~<S>. When the policy 
has been chosen the state of the product can be obtained from the 
state of the feed by repeated application of the transformation (1); 
thus **f. The objective function, which is to be maximized, is some 
function, usually piecewise continuous, of the product state. Let this 
be denoted by **f.   An optimal policy is an admissible policy 
**f which maximizes the objective function ~<P>. The policy may 
not be unique but the maximum value of ~<P> certainly is, and once 
the policy is specified this maximum can be calculated by (2) and (3) 
as a function of the feed state **f. Let **f where the maximization 
is over all admissible policies **f. When it is necessary to be specific 
we say that the optimal policy is an optimal ~<R>-stage policy 
with respect to the feed state **f.   For any choice of admissible 
policy **f in the first stage, the state of the stream leaving 
this stage is given by **f. This is the feed state of the subsequent 
**f stages which, according to the principle of optimality, must use an 
optimal **f-stage policy with respect to this state. This will result 
in a value **f of the objective function, and when **f is chosen correctly 
this will give **f, the maximum of the objective function. Thus 
**f 
where the maximization is over all admissible policies **f, and **f 
is related to **f by (5). The sequence of equations (6) can be solved 
for **f when **f is known, and clearly **f, the maximization being 
over all admissible **f.   The set of equations (5), (6), and the 
starting equation (7) is of a recursive type well suited to programming 
on the digital computer. In finding the optimal ~<R>-stage policy 
from that of **f stages, only the function **f is needed. When 
**f has been found it may be transferred into the storage location of 
**f and the whole calculation repeated. We also see how the results 
may be presented, although if ~<n>, the number of state variables, 
is large any tabulation will become cumbersome. A table or set of tables 
may be set out as in Table 2.1.   To extract the optimal 
~<R>-stage policy with respect to the feed state **f, we enter section 
~<R> of this table at the state **f and find immediately 
from the last column the maximum value of the objective function. In 
the third column is given the optimal policy for stage ~<R>, and 
in the fourth, the resulting state of the stream when this policy is used. 
Since by the principle of optimality the remaining stages use an 
optimal **f-stage policy with respect to **f, we may enter section **f 
of the table at this state **f and read off the optimal policy for stage 
**f and the resulting state **f. Proceeding in this way up the table 
we extract the complete optimal policy and, if it is desired, we 
can check on **f by evaluating **f at the last stage.   It may be 
that the objective function depends not only on **f but also on **f, 
as when the cost of the operating policy is considered. A moment's 
reflection shows that the above algorithm and presentation work equally 
well in this case. A form of objective function that we shall often 
have occasion to consider is **f. Here ~<V>({p}) represents 
the 
value of the stream in state ~{p} and ~<C>({q}) the cost 
of operating the stage with conditions ~{q}. Hence ~<P> 
is the increase in value of the stream minus the cost of operation, that 
is, the net profit. If **f denotes the net profit from stage ~<r> 
and **f then the principle of optimality gives **f This sequence 
of equations may be started with the remark that with no process **f there 
is no profit, i&e&, **f. 

#2.3 THE DISCRETE STOCHASTIC PROCESS# 

The process in which the outcome of any one stage is known only 
statistically is also of interest, although for chemical reactor design 
it is not as important as the deterministic process. In this case 
the stage ~<r> operating with conditions **f transforms the state 
of the stream from **f to **f, but only the probability distribution of 
**f is known. This is specified by a distribution function **f such 
that the probability that **f lies in some region ~<D> of the stage 
space is **f.   We cannot now speak of maximizing the value 
of the objective function, since this function is now known only in a 
probabilistic sense. We can, however, maximize its expected value. For 
a single stage we may define **f where the maximization is by choice 
of **f. We thus have an optimal policy which maximizes the expected 
value of the objective function for a given **f. If we consider a process 
in which the outcome of one stage is known before passage to the 
next, then the principle of optimality shows that the policy in subsequent 
stages should be optimal with respect to the outcome of the first. 
Then **f, the maximization being over all admissible **f and the integration 
over the whole of stage space.   The type of presentation 
of results used in the deterministic process may be used here, except 
that now the fourth column is redundant. The third column gives 
the optimal policy, but we must wait to see the outcome of stage ~<R> 
and enter the preceding section of the table at this state. The 
discussion of the optimal policy when the outcome of one stage is not 
known before passing to the next is a very much more difficult matter. 

#2.4 THE CONTINUOUS DETERMINISTIC PROCESS#

In many cases it is not 
possible to divide the process into a finite number of discrete stages, 
since the state of the stream is transformed in a continuous manner 
through the process. We replace ~<r>, the number of the stage 
from the end of the process, by ~<t>, a continuous variable which 
measures the "distance" of the point considered from the end of the 
process. The word <distance> is used here in a rather general sense; 
it may in fact be the time that will elapse before the end of the 
process. If ~<T> is the total "length" of the process, its 
feed state may be denoted by a vector ~{p}(<T>) and the product 
state by ~{p}(O). ~{p}(<t>) denotes the state at 
any point ~<t> and ~{q}(<t>) the vector of operating variables 
there.

A gyro-stabilized platform system, using restrained gyros, is 
well suited for automatic leveling because of the characteristics of the 
gyro-platform-servo combination. The restrained gyro-stabilized platform 
with reasonable response characteristics operates with an approximate 
equation of motion, neglecting transient effects, as follows: 
**f where ~<U> is a torque applied about the output axis of the 
controlling gyro.   The platform angle ~|f is the angle about 
which the gyro is controlling. This is normally termed the gyro input 
axis, 90` away from the gyro output or ~|j axis. The gyro angular 
momentum is defined by ~<H>.   Thus if the gyro and platform-controller 
combination maintains the platform with zero angular 
deviation about the ~|f axis, the system can be rotated with an 
angular velocity **f if a torque is supplied to the gyro output axis ~|j. 
It is assumed that the gyros are designed with electrical torquers 
so that a torque can be applied about their output axes. 
In the system shown in Fig& 7-1, the accelerometer output is amplified 
and the resulting voltage is applied to the gyro output-axis torquer. 
This torque causes the entire system to rotate about the ~|f 
axis, since the response to **f. If the polarities are correct, the 
platform rotates in such a direction as to reduce the accelerometer output 
to zero. As the accelerometer output is decreasing, the torque applied 
to the gyro output axis decreases and, therefore, the rate decreases. 
Finally, when the accelerometer output is zero, the entire system 
remains stationary, and the platform is, by definition, leveled.

A mathematical block diagram for the leveling system is shown in 
Fig& 7-2. The platform is initially off level by the angle ~|f. 
The angle generated by the platform servo ~|f multiplied by ~<g> 
is the effective acceleration acting on the accelerometer. **f 
is the scale factor of the accelerometer (**f). The voltage **f is amplified 
by **f and applied to the gyro torquer with scale factor **f. 
Finally, the gyro-stabilized platform characteristic is represented 
by **f The system as indicated in Fig& 7-2 is fundamental and simple 
because the transient effects of both the platform servo and the 
accelerometer have been neglected. With these factors included, an upper 
limit is placed on the allowable loop gain by stability considerations. 
In this type of system, a high loop gain is desirable because it 
provides a fast response time.   When the frequency response characteristics 
of practical components are considered, their effect on 
stability does not present the most serious limit on the system loop 
gain. The time required for the system to reach a level position is approximately 
inversely proportional to the servo loop gain. In addition, 
the cutoff frequency for input accelerations is approximately proportional 
to the servo loop gain; i&e&, high loop gain causes the 
system to respond to horizontal components of accelerations. This problem 
usually determines the lower limit of loop gain rather than response 
time.   It must be noticed in Fig& 7-1 that the accelerometer 
responds to any input acceleration. The equation relating input 
acceleration to output platform angle is **f In practice, the preflight 
leveling process takes place with the system mounted in the airframe. 
When the system is arranged for automatic leveling, the platform 
angles respond to any horizontal components of acceleration acting on 
the accelerometers. There are many such components of acceleration present 
due to the effect of wind gusts, engine noise, turbulence around 
the vehicle, etc&. One of the greatest problems associated with automatic 
leveling is establishing a true level in the presence of high-level 
acceleration noise. One solution to the problem is to operate 
with a low loop gain and to include low-pass filters. This technique 
causes the system to respond only to low frequency acceleration components 
such as the platform tilt. Since a lower loop gain and low-pass filtering 
increases the response time, a practical compromise must be reached.

One of the most desirable solutions is achieved by the 
use of a non-linear amplifier for **f. The amplifier is designed so 
that its gain is large for accelerometer signals above a certain threshold 
level. Below this level, the amplifier gain **f is proportional 
and is of small value, in order to provide adequate noise filtering. The 
effect is that the platform returns from an off-level position at 
a rapid rate until it is nearly level, at which point the platform is 
controlled by a proportional servo with low enough frequency response 
so that the noise has little effect on the leveling process.   When 
the system is on automatic leveling, the gyro drift is canceled by 
the output of the leveling system (amplifier **f). The platform actually 
tilts off level so that the accelerometer output, when amplified 
by **f, will supply the correct current to the gyro torquer to cancel 
the gyro drift. The amount of platform dip required depends upon the 
scale factors of the system. 

#7-3. PRACTICAL LEVELING 
CONSIDERATIONS.# 

The automatic leveling system described in this section is readily 
adaptable to a gyro-stabilized platform consisting of three integrating 
gyros. The system requires some switching of flight equipment circuits. 
However, the leveling operation can be maintained and controlled 
remotely with no mechanical or optical contact with the platform.

This leveling system will hold the platform on-level, automatically, 
as long as the system is actuated. A useful by-product of this 
system is that the information necessary to set the gyro drift biases 
is available from the currents necessary to hold the system in level.

The leveling process can be accomplished manually, and the results 
are as satisfactory as those obtained with automatic equipment. The 
process consists in turning the platform manually until the outputs 
of both accelerometers are zero. The turning is accomplished by applying 
voltage to the gyro torquers described above. In brief, the human 
replaces amplifier **f in Figs& 7-1 and 7-2.   Manual leveling 
requires an appropriate display of the accelerometer outputs. If 
high accuracy is required in preflight leveling, it is usually necessary 
to integrate or doubly integrate the accelerometer outputs (this also 
minimizes the noise problem). With integration, the effect of a small 
acceleration (or small platform tilt angle) can be seen after a time. 
However, skill is required on the part of an operator to level a 
platform to any degree of accuracy. Also, it requires more time as 
compared to the automatic approach.   Manual leveling is inconvenient 
if the platform must be maintained accurately level for any prolonged 
period of time. The operator must continually supply the correct 
amount of turning current to the gyro torquers so that the effect of 
gyro drift is canceled. This process is especially difficult since gyro 
drifting is typically random. 

#7-4. PLATFORM HEADING.#

Platform 
heading consists of orienting the sensitive axis of the accelerometers 
parallel to the desired coordinate system of the navigator. In simpler 
terms, it amounts to pointing the platform in the proper direction.

For purely inertial navigators, two techniques are available 
to accomplish the platform heading: _1._ Use of external or 
surveying equipment to establish proper heading. _2._ Use of the 
characteristics of the platform components for an indication of true 
heading The choice of the heading technique is dependent upon the accuracy 
requirements, field conditions, and the time available to accomplish 
the heading. 

#7-5. EXTERNAL DETERMINATION OF HEADING- SURVEYING 
TECHNIQUE.#

With the gyro-stabilized platform leveled, it can be 
headed in the proper direction by using surveying techniques. The platform 
accelerometers must be slightly modified for this procedure. Before 
the accelerometers are mounted on the platform, the direction of 
their sensitive axis must be accurately determined. A mirror is mounted 
on each accelerometer so that the plane of the mirror is perpendicular 
to the sensitive axis of the unit. _TRANSIT._ A precision transit 
is set up so that it is aligned with respect to true north. This 
can be done to a high degree of accuracy by existing surveying techniques. 
With the transit set up, a mirror on one of the accelerometers 
is sighted and the platform is turned until it is aligned.   The 
sighting procedure includes the use of a fixture for the transit to 
project a beam of light, which is darkened by crossed hairs, on the accelerometer 
mirror. When the platform is aligned, the reflected image 
of the crossed hairs can be seen exactly superimposed upon the original 
crossed hairs. The images can easily be aligned with a high degree 
of accuracy. The platform is turned as required by supplying currents 
to the appropriate gyro torquers.   Although this technique is 
simple and satisfactory, one practical difficulty does exist: the direction 
of true north must be known for each launch point. However, 
this difficulty is not too serious if it is realized that a surveying 
team can establish a true north base line with a few days' work.

In many installations, the inertial platform is raised off the ground 
a considerable height when it is mounted in the vehicle before flight. 
With this situation, it is difficult to sight in on the platform with 
surveying equipment. 
If the platform is not too high off the ground, 
a transit can be mounted on a stand to raise it up to the platform. 
Obviously, the heading accuracy is lessened by such techniques since 
errors are introduced because of motion of the stand. _AUTOCOLLIMATOR._ 
The transit can be replaced by an autocollimator. This instrument 
provides an electrical signal proportional to the angular deviations 
of the platform and can be used to automatically hold the platform 
on true heading. The electrical signal from the autocollimator is amplified 
and supplied to the ~<Z>-gyro torquer. If the polarity is 
correct, the platform will turn until the heading error angle is zero. 
Information is also available from this autocollimator system to set 
the drift bias for the ~<Z>-axis gyro. If the ~<Z> gyro 
is drifting, a current generated by the autocollimator is delivered to 
the gyro torquer to cancel the drift. If the drift error is systematic, 
it can be canceled with a bias circuit which can be arranged and adjusted 
to supply the required compensating current. _ELECTRICAL PICKOFFS._ 
It is possible to locate an angular electrical pickoff, which 
will indicate the angular deviation between the true heading direction 
and the platform. Essentially, the stator or reference portion of 
the pickoff is established with respect to the true heading direction, 
and the platform is turned either manually or automatically until the 
angular electrical pickoff signal is reduced to zero. 

#7-6. GYROCOMPASS 
HEADING.#

Gyrocompass alignment is an automatic heading system 
which depends upon the characteristic of one gyro to establish true 
heading. For the case of a purely inertial autonavigator consisting of 
three restrained gyros, a coordinate system is used where the sensitive 
axis of the ~<X> accelerometer is parallel to the east-west direction 
at the base point, and the ~<Y> accelerometer sensitive 
axis is parallel to the north-south direction at the base point. The 
accelerometers are mounted rigidly on the platform. Thus, if one accelerometer 
is properly aligned, the other is also. The input axis of the 
appropriate gyros are parallel to the sensitive direction of the accelerometers.

Figure 7-3 shows a platform system with the gyro 
vectors arranged as described above. The platform is leveled and properly 
headed, so that the ~<X>-gyro input axis is parallel to the 
east-west direction and the ~<Y>-gyro input axis is parallel to 
the north-south direction.   The input axis of the ~<X> gyro, 
when pointing in the east-west direction, is always perpendicular to 
the spin axis of earth. If the platform is not properly headed, the 
~<X>-gyro input axis will see a component of the earth's rotation. 
The sensing of this rotation by the ~<X> gyro can be utilized 
to direct the platform into proper heading.   In Fig& 7-4, 
the input axis of the three-axis platform is shown at some point on the 
earth. The point is at a latitude ~|l, and the platform is at 
an error in heading east. The earth is spinning at an angular velocity 
~\q equal to one revolution per 24 hr&. When the platform is 
level, ~|e is a rotation about the ~<Z> axis of the platform 
**f. Since the earth is rotating and the unleveled gyro-stabilized platform 
is fixed with respect to a reference in space, an observer on 
the earth will see the platform rotating (with respect to the earth). 

#THIRTY-THREE#

SCOTTY did not go back to school. His parents 
talked seriously and lengthily to their own doctor and to a specialist 
at the University Hospital- Mr& McKinley was entitled to a 
discount for members of his family- and it was decided it would be 
best for him to take the remainder of the term off, spend a lot of time 
in bed and, for the rest, do pretty much as he chose- provided, of 
course, he chose to do nothing too exciting or too debilitating. His 
teacher and his school principal were conferred with and everyone agreed 
that, if he kept up with a certain amount of work at home, there was 
little danger of his losing a term.   Scotty accepted the decision 
with indifference and did not enter the arguments.   He was 
discharged from the hospital after a two-day checkup and he and his 
parents had what Mr& McKinley described as a "celebration lunch" 
at the cafeteria on the campus. Rachel wore a smart hat and, because 
she had been warned recently about smoking, puffed at her cigarettes 
through a long ivory holder stained with lipstick. Scotty's father 
sat sprawled in his chair, angular, alert as a cricket, looking about 
at the huge stainless-steel appointments of the room with an expression 
of proprietorship.   Teachers- men who wore brown suits and 
had gray hair and pleasant smiles- came to their table to talk shop 
and to be introduced to Scotty and Rachel. Rachel was polite, Scotty 
indifferent. They ate the cafeteria food with its orange sauces 
and Scotty gazed without interest at his food, the teachers, the heroic 
baronial windows, and the bright ranks of college banners. His father 
tried to make the food a topic.   "The blueberry pie is good, 
Scotty. I recommend it". He looked at his son, his face worried. 
Scotty murmured, "No, thanks", so softly his father had to 
bend his gaunt height across the table and turn a round brown ear to him. 
Scotty regarded the ear and the grizzled hair around it with a moment 
of interest. He said more loudly, "I'm full, old Pop". He 
had eaten almost nothing on the crested, three-sectioned plate and 
had drunk about half the milk in its paper container.   "He's 
all right, Craig", Rachel said. "I can fix him something later 
in the afternoon when we get home".   Since his seizure, Scotty 
had had little appetite; yet his changed appearance, surprisingly, 
was one of plumpness. His face was fuller; his lips and the usually 
sharp lines of his jaw had become swollen-looking. He breathed now 
with his mouth open, showing a whitely curving section of lower teeth; 
he kept his eyes, with their puffed blurred lids, always lowered, 
though not, apparently, focusing. Even his neck seemed thicker and 
therefore shorter. His hands, which had been as quick as a pair of fluttering 
birds, were now neither active nor really relaxed. They lay 
on his lap, palms up, stiffly motionless, the tapered fingers a little 
thick at the joints. Altogether he had, since the seizure, the appearance 
of a boy who overindulged in food and took no exercise. He looked 
lazy, spoiled, a little querulous.   Rachel had little to say. 
She greeted her husband's colleagues with smiling politeness, offering 
nothing. Mr& McKinley, for all his sprawling and his easy familiarity, 
was completely alert to his son, eyes always on the still 
face, jumping to anticipate Scotty's desires. It was a strained, silent 
lunch.   Rachel said, "I'd better get him to bed".

The doctors had suggested Scotty remain most of every afternoon 
in bed until he was stronger.   Since Mr& McKinley had to 
give a lecture, Rachel and Scotty drove home alone in the Plymouth. 
They did not speak much. Scotty gazed out at ugly gray slums and 
said softly, "Look at those stupid kids". It was a Negro section 
of peeling row houses, store-front churches and ragged children. Rachel 
had to bend toward Scotty and ask him to repeat. He said, "Nothing". 
And then: "There are lots of kids around here".

Scotty looked at the children, his mouth slightly opened, his eyes 
dull. He felt tired and full and calm. 

#THIRTY-FOUR#

THE 
days seemed short, perhaps because his routine was, each day, almost 
the same. He rose late and went down in his bathrobe and slippers to 
have breakfast either alone or with Rachel. Virginia treated him with 
attention and tried to tempt his appetite with special food: biscuits, 
cookies, candies- the result of devoted hours in the tiled kitchen. 
She would hover over him and, looking like her brother, anxiously 
watch the progress of Scotty's fork or spoon.   "You don't 
eat enough, honey. Try to get that down".   Rachel, observing, 
would say, "He has to rediscover his own capacity. It'll 
take time".   Virginia and Rachel talked to each other quietly 
now, as allies who are political rather than natural might in a war 
atmosphere. Both watched Scotty constantly, Rachel without seeming 
to, Virginia openly, her eyes filled with concern. Scotty was neutral. 
He did not resent their supervision or Virginia's sometimes tiring 
sympathy. He ate what he felt like, slept as much or as little as 
he pleased, and moved about the draughty rooms of the house, when he 
was not in bed, with slow dubious steps, like an elderly tourist in a 
cathedral. His energy was gone. He was able, now, to sit for hours 
in a chair in the living room and stare out at the bleak yard without 
moving. His hands lay loosely, yet stiffly- they were like wax hands: 
almost lifelike, not quite- folded in his lap; his mouth hung 
slightly open. When he was asked a question or addressed in such a way 
that some response was inescapable, he would answer; if, as often 
happened, he had to repeat because he had spoken too softly, he would 
repeat his words in the same way, without emphasis or impatience, only 
a little louder.   He had not mentioned Kate. He had not even 
thought about her much except once or twice at night in bed when his 
slowly ranging thoughts would abruptly, almost accidentally, encounter 
her. At these times he felt a kind of pain in his upper chest, but 
it was an objective pain, in no way different from others in intensity 
and not different in kind; it was like the bandaged wound on the back 
of his head which occasionally throbbed; it was merely another part 
of his weakness. He was calm, drugged, and lazy. He did not care.

Rachel mentioned Kate. She said, "I notice the girl from 
across the street hasn't bothered to phone or visit".   Scotty 
said, "That's all right. Kate's all right". He thought 
about it briefly, then deliberately turned the talk to something else.

Once, sitting at the front window in his parents' room, he 
saw Kate come out of her house. She was with Elizabeth. They were 
far off and looked tiny. The heavy branches in his front yard would hide 
and then reveal them. They turned at the bottom of Kate's steps 
and moved off in the direction of the park. He thought he saw- it 
awakened and, for a moment, interested him- that Elizabeth held a 
leash in her hand and that a round fuzzy puppy was on the end of the leash. 
Then they disappeared and Scotty got up and went into his own 
room and got into bed. By the time he was under the covers he had forgotten 
about seeing Kate.   The doctor, since Scotty was no longer 
allowed to make his regular trips into town to see him, came often 
and informally to the house. He would sit, slim-waisted and spare, 
on the edge of Scotty's bed, his legs crossed so elaborately that the 
crossed foot could tap the floor. Scotty did not mind the doctor's 
unsmiling teasing as he used to.   "Husky young man", he 
said with mock distaste. "I imagine you're always battling in school".

"I don't go to school any more".   "Pardon"? 
The doctor had to bend close to hear; his delicate hand, as 
veined as a moth's wing, rested absently on Scotty's chest. Scotty 
said the same words more loudly. "Oh. Well, we're taking a 
little vacation, that's all". He turned unsmilingly to Rachel. "I 
think by the end of next week he could get out in the air a little. 
He could now but the weakness is very definite; it would exhaust 
him further and unnecessarily. He'll be stronger soon". His stethoscope 
was on the table by Scotty's bed and he picked it up and wagged 
it at Scotty. He said fussily, "Just keep the cap on those 
strong emotions". The stethoscope glinted silver in the darkening room. 
"I'll drop by again in a few days".   Rachel stayed 
on after the doctor had gone. She smoothed the covers on Scotty's 
bed and picked things up from the floor. She did not touch him. Scotty 
watched with disinterest. He did not speak. He had no desire to.

She said, "Do you think you'll miss school"?   He 
had noticed how formal and irritably exact Rachel had grown. He did 
not care. He felt her irritability did not concern him, yet he knew 
he would not care even if it did. He shook his head.   "We've 
had any number of calls about you. You could win a popularity contest 
at that school without any trouble. Miss Estherson called twice. 
She wants to pay you a visit. She says the children miss you. Apparently 
you were the light of their lives".   Scotty shrugged 
slightly. Rachel came close to the bed, bent as if she would kiss him, 
then moved away. She was frowning. "That doctor annoys me". She 
seemed to speak to herself. "Do you suppose his self-consciousness 
is characteristic of the new Negro professionals or merely of doctors 
in general"?   She turned to him again. "Well, Mrs& 
Charles- Sally- has phoned too. She was very worried". Rachel's 
tone was dry. "She didn't really say"- She glanced 
away at the floor, then swooped gracefully and picked up one of Scotty's 
slippers. "I mean, do you feel like seeing Kate"?

Scotty said, "I don't know". It was true. He did not. There 
was the slight pain, but it was no different from the throbbing in 
his head.   "Well, there's time, in any case. We'll wait 
till you're stronger and then talk about it". She put the slipper 
neatly 
by its mate at the foot of the bed.   Scotty said, "Okay".

This time Rachel kissed him lightly on the forehead. Scotty 
was pleased.   His father was a constant visitor. Scotty 
would hear the front door in the evening and then his father's deep 
slow voice; it floated up the stairs.   "How's Scotty"?

And Rachel's or Virginia's reply: "Better. He's 
getting plenty of rest".   "Is his appetite improved"? 
Or: "Does he get exercise"?   The exchange was almost 
invariable, and Scotty, in his bed, could hear every word of it. He 
never smiled. It required an energy he no longer possessed to be satirical 
about his father. His father would come upstairs and stand self-consciously 
at the foot of the bed and look at his son. After a pause, 
during which he studied Scotty's face as if Scotty were not there 
and could not study him too, Mr& McKinley would ask the same 
questions he had asked downstairs.   Scotty would reply softly and 
his father, apologetically, would ask him to repeat.   "I'm 
eating more", he would say. Or: "I walk around the house a 
lot".   "Perhaps you should get out a little".   "I'm 
not supposed to yet". He was not irritated. He did not mind 
the useless, kindly questions. He looked at the lined face with vague 
interest; he felt he was noting it, as if it were something he might 
think about when he grew stronger.   Mr& McKinley examined 
everything with critical care, seeking something material to blame for 
his son's illness.   "Have you got enough blankets"? And 
another time, without accusation: "You never wore that scarf 
I bought you". 
Where their sharp edges seemed restless as sea waves thrusting themselves 
upward in angry motion, Papa-san sat glacier-like, his smooth solidity, 
his very immobility defying all the turmoil about him. "Our 
objective", the colonel had said that day of the briefing, "is Papa-san". 
There the objective sat, brooding over all. Gouge, burn, 
blast, insult it as they would, could anyone really take Papa-san?

Between the ponderous hulk and himself, in the valley over which 
Papa-san reigned, men had hidden high explosives, booby traps, and 
mines. The raped valley was a pregnant womb awaiting abortion. On 
the forward slope in front of his own post stretched two rows of barbed 
wire. At the slope's base coils of concertina stretched out of eye 
range like a wild tangle of children's hoops, stopped simultaneously, 
weirdly poised as if awaiting the magic of the child's touch to 
start them all rolling again. Closer still, regular barricades of barbed 
wire hung on timber supports. Was it all vain labor? Who would 
clean up the mess when the war was over? Smiling at his quixotic 
thoughts, Warren turned back from the opening and lit a cigarette before 
sitting down. Tonight a group of men, tomorrow night he himself, 
would go out there somewhere and wait. If he were to go with White, 
he would be out there two days, not just listening in the dark at some 
point between here and Papa-san, but moving ever deeper into enemy 
land- behind Papa-san itself. Was this what he had expected? He 
hadn't realized that there would be so much time to think, so many 
lulls. Somehow he had forgotten what he must have been told, that combat 
was an intermittent activity. Now he knew that the moment illuminated 
by the vision on the train would have to be approached. It could 
take place tomorrow night, or it might occur months from now. There 
was just too much time. Time to become afraid. White's suggestion 
flattered, but he did not like the identity. He did not spill over with 
hatred for the enemy. He hadn't even seen him yet **h   Pressing 
his cigarette out in the earth, Warren walked to the slit and 
scanned the jagged hills. He saw no life, but still stood there for 
a time peering at the unlovely hills, his gaze continually returning to 
Papa-san. He had come here in order to test himself. While most of 
his beliefs were still unsettled, he knew that he did not believe in 
killing. Yet, he was here. He had come because he could not live out 
his life feeling that he had been a coward. ##

There were ten men 
on the patrol which Sergeant Prevot led out that next night. The 
beaming ~ROK was carrying a thirty-caliber machine gun; another 
man lugged the tripod and a box of ammunition. Warren and White each 
carried, in addition to their own weapons and ammo, a box of ammo for 
the ~ROK's machine gun. Others carried extra clips for the 
Browning Automatic Rifle, which was in the hands of a little Mexican 
named Martinez. Prevot had briefed the two new men that afternoon. 
"We just sit quiet and wait", Prevot had said. "Be sure the 
man nearest you is awake. If Joe doesn't show up, we'll all be 
back here at 0600 hours. Otherwise, we hold a reception. Then we pull 
out under our mortar and artillery cover, but nobody pulls out until 
I say so. Remember what I said about going out to get anybody left 
behind? That still holds. We bring back all dead and wounded".

At 2130 hours they had passed through the barbed wire at the 
point of departure. Then began the journey through their own mine fields. 
Mines. Ours were kinder than theirs, some said. They set bouncing 
betties to jump and explode at testicle level while we more mercifully 
had them go off at the head. Mines. Big ones and little. The crude 
wooden boxes of the enemy, our nicely turned gray metal disks. But 
theirs defied the detectors. Mines. A foot misplaced, a leg missing. 
Mines. All sizes: big ones, some wired to set off a whole field, 
little ones, hand grenade size. Booby traps to fill the head with 
chunks of metal. Warren tried to shake off the jumble of his fears by 
looking at the sky. It was dark. Prevot had said that the searchlights 
would be bounced off the clouds at 2230 hours, "which gives us time 
to get settled in position".   Because they were new men and 
to be sure that they didn't get lost, Prevot had placed Warren 
and White in the center of the patrol as it filed out. His eyes now 
fixed on White's solid figure, Warren could hear behind him the tread 
of another. He could also hear the stream which he had seen from 
his position. They were going to follow it for part of their journey. 
"It's safe", Prevot had said, "and it provides cover for our 
noise".   Soon they were picking their way along the edge of 
the stream which glowed in the night. On their right rose the embankment 
covered with brush and trees. If a branch extended out too far, 
each man held it back for the next, and if they met a low overhang, each 
warned the other. Thus, stealthily they advanced upstream; then 
they turned to the right, climbed the embankment, and walked into the 
valley again. There was no cover here, only grass sighing against 
pant-legs. And with each sigh, like a whip in the hand of an expert, 
the grass stripped something from Warren. The gentle whir of each footstep 
left him more naked than before, until he felt his unprotected 
flesh tremble, chilled by each new sound. The shapes of the men ahead 
of him lacked solidity, as if the whip had stripped them of their very 
flesh. The dark forms moved like mourners on some nocturnal pilgrimage, 
their dirge unsung for want of vocal chords. The warped, broken 
trees in the valley assumed wraith-like shapes. Clumps of brush that 
they passed were so many enchained demons straining 
in anger to tear and gnaw on his bones. Looming over all, Papa-san 
leered down at him, threatening a hundred hidden malevolencies. Off in 
the distance a searchlight flashed on, its beam slashing the sky. The 
sharp ray was absorbed by a cloud, then reflected to the earth in a 
softer, diffused radiance. Somewhere over there another patrol had need 
of light. Warren thought of all the men out that night who, like 
himself, had left their protective ridge and- fear working at their 
guts- picked their way into the area beyond. From the east to the west 
coast of the Korean peninsula was a strip of land in which fear-filled 
men were at that same moment furtively crawling through the night, 
sitting in sweaty anticipation of any movement or sound, or shouting 
amidst confused rifle flashes and muzzle blasts. White's arm went 
up and Warren raised his own. The patrol was stopping.   Prevot 
came up "Take that spot over there", he whispered, pointing to 
a small clump of blackness. "Give me your machine gun ammo". Warren 
handed him the metal box and Prevot quietly disappeared down the 
line.   Lying in the grass behind the brush clump, Warren looked 
about. The others likewise had hidden themselves in the grass and 
the brush. Over his shoulder he could see Prevot with the machine gun 
crew. Even at this short distance they were only vague shapes, setting 
up the machine gun on a small knoll so that it could fire above the 
heads of the rest of the patrol.   Warren eased his rifle's 
safety off and gently, slowly sneaked another clip of ammunition from 
one of the cloth bandoleers that marked the upper part of his body with 
an ~X. This he placed within quick reach. The walk and his fears 
had served to overheat him and his sweaty armpits cooled at the touch 
of the night air. Although the armored vest fitted the upper part 
of his body snugly, he felt no security. Figures seemed to crouch in 
the surrounding dark; in the distance he saw a band of men who seemed 
to advance and retreat even as he watched. Certain this menace was 
only imaginary, he yet stared in fascinated horror, his hand sticky against 
the stock of his weapon. He was aware of insistent inner beatings, 
as if prisoners within sought release from his rigid body. 
Above, the glowing ivory baton of their searchlight pointed at the clouds, 
diluting the valley's dark to a pallid light. Then the figures 
which held his attention became a group of shattered trees, standing 
like the grotesques of a medieval damnation scene. Even so, he could 
not ease the tension of his body; the rough surface of the earth itself 
seemed to resist every attempt on his part to relax. Sensing the 
unseen presence of the other men in the patrol, he felt mutely united 
to these nine near-strangers sharing this pinpoint of being with him. 
He sensed something precious in the perilous moment, something akin 
to the knowledge gained on his bicycle trip through the French countryside, 
a knowledge imprisoned in speechlessness.  - In France 
he had puzzled the meaning of the great stone monuments men had thrown 
up to the sky, and always as he wandered, he felt a stranger to their 
exultation. They were poems in a strange language, of which he could 
barely touch a meaning- enough to make his being ache with the desire 
for the fullness he sensed there. Brittany, that stone-gray mystery 
through which he traveled for thirty days, sleeping in the barns of 
farmers or alongside roads, had worked some subtle change in him, he 
knew, and it was in Brittany that he had met Pierre.   Pierre 
had no hands; they had been severed at the wrists. With leather cups 
fitted in his handlebars, he steered his bicycle. He and Warren had 
traveled together for four days. They visited the shipyards at Brest 
and Pierre had to sign the register, vouching for the integrity of 
the visiting foreigner. He took the pen in his stumps and began to 
write.   "Wait! Wait"! cried the guard who ran from the 
hut to shout to other men standing about outside. They crowded the small 
room and peered over one another's shoulders to watch the handless 
man write his name in the book.   "C'est formidable", 
they exclaimed.   "Mais, oui. C'est merveilleux". 
And then the questions came, eager, interested questions, and many compliments 
on his having overcome his infirmity.   "Doesn't it 
ever bother you", Warren had asked, "to have people always asking 
you about your hands"?   "Oh, the French are a very curious 
people", Pierre had laughed. "They are also honest seekers 
after truth. Now the English are painfully silent about my missing 
hands. They refuse to mention or to notice that they are not there. The 
Americans, like yourself, take the fact for granted, try to be helpful, 
but don't ask questions. I'm used to all three, but I think 
the French have the healthiest attitude".   That was the day 
that Pierre had told Warren about the Abbey of Solesmes. "You 
are looking tired and there you can rest. It will be good for you. 
I think, too", he said, his dark eyes mischievous, "that you will 
find there some clue to the secret of the cathedrals about which you 
have spoken".   Within two weeks Warren was ringing the bell 
at the abbey gate. The monk who opened the door immediately calmed his 
worries about his reception: "I speak English", the old man 
said, "but I do not hear it very well". He smiled and stuck a large 
finger with white hairs sprouting on it into his ear as though that 
might help. Smiling at Warren's protestations, the old monk took 
his grip from him and led him down a corridor to a small parlor. "Will 
you please wait in here. 
MICKIE SAT over his second whisky-on-the-rocks in a little bar next 
to the funeral parlor on Pennsylvania Avenue. Al's Little Cafe 
was small, dark, narrow, and filled with the mingled scent of beer, 
tobacco smoke, and Italian cooking. Hanging over the bar was an oil 
painting of a nude Al had accepted from a student at the Corcoran 
Gallery who needed to eat and drink and was broke. The nude was small 
and black-haired and elfin, and was called "Eloise".   This 
was one place where Moonan could go for a drink in a back booth without 
anyone noticing him, or at least coming up and hanging around and 
wanting to know all the low-down. The other patrons were taxi drivers 
and art students and small shopkeepers. The reporters had not yet 
discovered that this was his hideaway.   His friend Jane was with 
him. She was wise enough to realize a man could be good company even 
if he did weigh too much and didn't own the mint. She was the widow 
of a writer who had died in an airplane crash, and Mickie had found 
her a job as head of the historical section of the Treasury. This 
meant sorting out press clippings and the like.   Jane sat receptive 
and interested. Mickie had a pleasant glow as he said, "You see, 
both of them, I mean the President and Jeff Lawrence, are romantics. 
A romantic is one who thinks the world is divinely inspired and 
all he has to do is find the right key, and then divine justice and 
altruism will appear. It's like focusing a camera; the distant ship 
isn't there until you get the focus. You know what I'm talking 
about. I'm sure all girls feel this way about men until they live 
with them.   "But when it comes to war, the Colonel knows what 
it is and Jeff doesn't. Mr& Christiansen knows that a soldier 
will get the Distinguished Service Medal for conduct that would land 
him in prison for life or the electric chair as a civilian. He had 
a mean, unbroken sheer bastard in his outfit, and someone invented the 
name Trig for him. That's to say, he was trigger happy. He'd 
shoot at anything if it was the rear end of a horse or his own sentry. 
He was a wiry, inscrutable, silent country boy from the red clay of 
rural Alabama, and he spoke with the broad drawl that others normally 
make fun of. But not in front of Trig. I heard of some that tried 
it back in the States, and he'd knock them clear across the room. 
There'd been a pretty bad incident back at the Marine base. A New 
York kid, a refugee from one of the Harlem gangs, made fun of Trig's 
accent, and drew a knife. Before the fight was over, the Harlem 
boy had a concussion and Trig was cut up badly. They caught Trig 
stealing liquor from the officers' mess, and he got a couple of girls 
in trouble. The fear of punishment just didn't bother him. It wasn't 
there. It was left out of him at birth. This is why he made such 
a magnificent soldier. He wasn't troubled with the ordinary, rank-and-file 
fear that overcomes and paralyzes and sends individual soldiers 
and whole companies under fire running in panic. It just didn't 
occur to Trig that anything serious would happen to him. Do you get 
the picture of the kind of fellow he was"?   Jane nodded 
with a pleasant smile.   "All right. There was a sniper's nest 
in a mountain cave, and it was picking off our men with devilish accuracy. 
The Colonel ordered that it be wiped out, and I suggested, 
'You ask for volunteers, and promise each man on the patrol a quart 
of whisky, ten dollars and a week-end pass to Davao'. Trig was 
one of the five volunteers. The patrol snaked around in back of the cave, 
approached it from above and dropped in suddenly with wild howls. 
You could hear them from our outpost. There was a lot of shooting. 
We knew the enemy was subdued, because a flare was fired as the signal. 
So we hurried over. Two of our men were killed, a third was wounded. 
Trig and a very black colored boy from Detroit had killed or put 
out of action ten guerrillas by grenades and hand-to-hand fighting. When 
we got there, Trig and the Negro were quarreling over possession 
of a gold crucifix around the neck of a wounded Filipino. The colored 
boy had it, and Trig lunged at him with a knife and said, 'Give 
that to me, you black bastard. We don't 'low nigras to walk on 
the same sidewalk with white men where I come from'.   "The 
Negro got a bad slice on his chest from the knife wound".   "What 
did the Colonel do about the men"? Jane asked in her placid, 
interested way.   Mickie laughed. "He recommended both of 
them for the ~DSM and the Detroit fellow for the Purple Heart, 
too, for a combat-inflicted wound. So you see Mr& Christiansen 
knows what it's all about. But not Jeff Lawrence. When he was in 
the war, he was in Law or Supplies or something like that, and an 
old buddy of his told me he would come down on Sundays to the Pentagon 
and read the citations for medals- just like the one we sent in for 
Trig- and go away with a real glow. These were heroes nine feet 
tall to him". ##

Jefferson Lawrence was alone at the small, perfectly 
appointed table by the window looking out over the river. He 
had dinner and sat there over his coffee watching the winding pattern 
of traffic as it crossed the bridge and spread out like a serpent with 
two heads. Open beside him was <Mrs& Dalloway>. He thought how 
this dainty, fragile older woman threading her way through the streets 
of Westminster on a day in June, enjoying the flowers in the shops, 
the greetings from old friends, but never really drawing a deep, passionate 
breath, was so like himself. He, and Mrs& Dalloway, too, 
had never permitted themselves the luxury of joys that dug into the 
bone marrow of the spirit.   He had not because he was both poor 
and ambitious. Poverty imposes a kind of chastity on the ambitious. 
They cannot stop to grasp and embrace and sit in the back seat of cars 
along a dark country lane. No, they must look the other way and climb 
one more painful step up the ladder. He made the decision with his 
eyes open, or so he thought. At any cost, he must leave the dreary Pennsylvania 
mining town where his father was a pharmacist. And so he 
had, so he had. At State College, he had no time to walk among the 
violets on the water's edge. From his room he could look out in springtime 
and see the couples hand in hand walking slowly, deliciously, 
across the campus, and he could smell the sweet vernal winds. He was 
not stone. He was not unmoved. He had to teach himself patiently that 
these traps were not for him. He must mentally pull the blinds and 
close the window, so that all that existed was in the books before him. 
At law school, the same. More of this stamping down of human emotion 
as a young lawyer in New York. By the time he was prosperous enough- 
his goals were high- he was bald and afraid of women. The only 
one who would have him was his cripple, the strange unhappy woman 
who became his wife. Perhaps it was right; perhaps it was just. He 
had dared to defy nature, to turn his back to the Lorelei, and he was 
punished. Like Mrs& Dalloway, with her regrets about Peter Walsh, 
he had his moments of melancholy over a youth too well spent. If 
he had had a son, he would tell him, "Gather ye rosebuds while ye 
may **h This same flower that smiles today tomorrow will be dying". 
But then his son could afford it.   Lawrence was waiting for Bill 
Boxell. The Vice President had called and asked if he could see 
the Secretary at his home. He said the matter was urgent. The Secretary 
was uneasy about the visit. He did not like Boxell. He suspected 
something underhanded and furtive about him. Lawrence could not 
put his finger on it precisely, and this worried him. When you disliked 
or distrusted a man, you should have a reason. Human nature was 
not a piece of meat you could tell was bad by its smell. Lawrence stared 
a minute at the lighted ribbon of traffic, hoping that a clue to his 
dislike of the Vice President would appear. It did not. Therefore, 
he decided he was unfair to the young man and should make an effort 
to understand and sympathize with his point of view.   A half 
hour later the Vice President arrived. He looked very carefully at 
every piece of furnishing, as though hoping to store this information 
carefully in his mind. He observed the Florentine vase in the hall, 
the Renoir painting in the library, as well as the long shelves of well-bound 
volumes; the pattern of the Oriental rug, the delicate cut-glass 
chandelier.   He said to the Secretary, "I understand 
you came from a little Pennsylvania town near Wilkes-Barre. How did 
you find out about this"? He waved his arm around at the furnishings.

It was not a discourteous question, Lawrence decided. 
This young man had so little time to learn he had to be curious; 
he had to find out. The Secretary did not tell him at what cost, at 
what loneliness, he learned these things. He merely said, "Any good 
decorator these days can make you a tasteful home".   The Vice 
President said, "If you hear of any names that would fix me cheap 
in return for advertising they decorated the Vice President's 
home, let me know. I can do business with that kind".   Again, 
Lawrence thought a little sadly, these were the fees of poverty and 
ambition. Boxell did not have the chance to grow up graciously. He 
had to acquire everything he was going to get in four years.   They 
had brandy in the library. Boxell looked at Lawrence with a searching 
glance, the kind that a prosecuting attorney would give a man on trial. 
What are your weaknesses? Where will you break? How best to 
destroy your peace?   The Vice President said with a slight 
bluster, "There isn't anyone who loves the President more than 
I do. Old Chris is my ideal. At the same time, you have to face facts 
and realize that a man who's been in the Marine Corps all his 
life doesn't understand much about politics. What does a monk know 
about sex"?   Lawrence listened with the practiced, deceptive 
calm of the lawyer, but his face was in the shadow.   "So, 
we have to protect the old man for his own good. You see what I mean. 
Congress is full of politicians, and if you want to get along with 
them, you have to be politic. This is why I say we just can't go ahead 
and disarm the Germans and pull down our own defenses. Let me tell 
you what happened to me today. A fellow came up to me, a Senator, 
I don't have to tell you his name, and he told me, 'I love the 
President like a brother, but God damn it, he's crucifying me. I've 
got a quarter of a million Germans in my state, and those krautheads 
tune in on Father Werther every night, and if he tells them to 
go out and piss in the public square, that's what they do. He's 
telling them now to write letters to their Congressmen opposing the disarmament 
of Germany'. And another one comes to me and he says, 'Look 
here, there's a mill in my state employs five thousand people 
making uniforms for the Navy. 
The Bishop looked at him coldly and said "Take it or leave it"!

Literally, there was nothing else to do. He was caught in 
a machine. But Sojourner was not easily excited or upset and said quite 
calmly: "Let's go and see what it's like".   Annisberg 
was about seventy-five miles west of Birmingham, near the Georgia 
border and on the Tallahoosa River, a small and dirty stream. The 
city was a center of manufacture, especially in textiles, and also 
because of the beauty of some of its surroundings, a residence for many 
owners of the great industries in north Alabama. But it had, as was 
usual in southern cities of this sort, a Black Bottom, a low region 
near the river where the Negroes lived- servants and laborers huddled 
together in a region with no sewage save the river, where streets 
and sidewalks were neglected and where there was much poverty and crime.

Wilson came by train from Birmingham and looked the city 
over; the rather pleasant white city was on the hill where the chief 
stores were. Beyond were industries and factories. Then they went down 
to Black Bottom. In the midst of this crowded region was the Allen 
African Methodist Episcopal Church. It was an old and dirty 
wooden structure, sadly in need of repair. But it was a landmark. It 
had been there 50 years or more and everybody in town, black and white, 
knew of it. It had just suffered a calamity, the final crisis in a 
long series of calamities. For the old preacher who had been there twenty-five 
years was dead, and the city mourned him.   He was a 
loud-voiced man, once vigorous but for many years now declining in strength 
and ability. He was stern and overbearing with his flock, but obsequious 
and conciliatory with the whites, especially the rich who partly 
supported the church. The Deacon Board, headed by a black man 
named Carlson, had practically taken over as the pastor grew old, and 
had its way with the support of the Amen corner. The characteristic 
thing about this church was its Amen corner and the weekly religious 
orgy. A knot of old worshippers, chiefly women, listened weekly to a 
sermon. It began invariably in low tones, almost conversational, and 
then gradually worked up to high, shrill appeals to God and man. And 
then the Amen corner took hold, re-enacting a form of group participation 
in worship that stemmed from years before the Greek chorus, spreading 
down through the African forest, overseas to the West Indies, 
and then here in Alabama. With shout and slow dance, with tears and 
song, with scream and contortion, the corner group was beset by hysteria 
and shivering, wailing, shouting, possession of something that seemed 
like an alien and outside force. It spread to most of the audience 
and was often viewed by visiting whites who snickered behind handkerchief 
and afterward discussed Negro religion. It sometimes ended in 
death-like trances with many lying exhausted and panting on chair and 
floor. To most of those who composed the Amen corner it was a magnificent 
and beautiful experience, something for which they lived from week 
to week. It was often re-enacted in less wild form at the Wednesday 
night prayer meeting.   Wilson, on his first Sunday, witnessed 
this with something like disgust. He had preached a short sermon, 
trying to talk man-to-man to the audience, to tell them who he was, what 
he had done in Macon and Birmingham, and what he proposed to do here. 
He sympathized with them on the loss of their old pastor. But then, 
at mention of that name, the Amen corner broke loose. He had no 
chance to say another word. At the very end, when the audience was silent 
and breathless, a collection was taken and then slowly everyone 
filed out. The audience did not think much of the new pastor, and what 
the new pastor thought of the audience he did not dare at the time to 
say.   During the next weeks he looked over the situation. First 
of all there was the parsonage, an utterly impossible place for civilized 
people to live in, originally poorly conceived, apparently not 
repaired for years, with no plumbing or sewage, with rat-holes and rot. 
It was arranged that he would board in the home of one of the old 
members of the church, a woman named Catt who, as Wilson afterward found, 
was briefly referred to as The Cat because of her sharp tongue 
and fierce initiative.   Ann Catt was a lonely, devoted soul, 
never married, conducting a spotless home and devoted to her church, but 
a perpetual dissenter and born critic. She soared over the new pastor 
like an avenging angel lest he stray from the path and not know all 
the truth and gossip of which she was chief repository.   Then 
Wilson looked over the church and studied its condition. The salary 
of the pastor had for years been $500 annually and even this was in arrears. 
Wilson made up his mind that he must receive at least $2,500, 
but when he mentioned this to the Deacons they said nothing. The church 
itself must be repaired. It was dirty and neglected. It really 
ought to be rebuilt, and he determined to go up and talk to the city banks 
about this. Meanwhile, the city itself should be talked to. The 
streets in the colored section were dirty. There was typhoid and malaria. 
The children had nowhere to go and no place to play, not even sidewalks. 
The school was small, dark and ill-equipped. The teacher was 
a pliant fool. There were two liquor saloons not very far from the 
church, one white, that is conducted for white people with a side entrance 
for Negroes; the other exclusively Negro. Undoubtedly, there 
was a good deal of gambling in both.   On the other side of the 
church 
was a quiet, well-kept house with shutters and recently painted. Wilson 
inquired about it. It was called Kent House. The deacon of the 
church, Carlson, was its janitor. One of the leading members of the 
Amen corner was cook; there were two or three colored maids employed 
there. Wilson was told that it was a sort of hotel for white people, 
which seemed to him rather queer. Why should a white hotel be set 
down in the center of Black Bottom? But nevertheless it looked respectable. 
He was glad to have it there.   The rest of Black 
Bottom was a rabbit warren of homes in every condition of neglect, disrepair 
and careful upkeep. Dives, carefully repaired huts, and nicely 
painted and ornamented cottages were jumbled together cheek by jowl 
with little distinction. The best could not escape from the worst and 
the worst nestled cosily beside the better. The yards, front and back, 
were narrow; some were trash dumps, some had flower gardens. Behind 
were privies, for there was no sewage system.   After looking 
about a bit, Wilson discovered beyond Black Bottom, across the river 
and far removed from the white city, a considerable tract of land, 
and it occurred to him that the church and the better Negro homes might 
gradually be moved to this plot. He talked about it to the Presiding 
Elder. The Presiding Elder looked him over rather carefully. 
He was not sure what kind of a man he had in hand. But there was one 
thing that he had to stress, and that was that the contribution to the 
general church expenses, the dollar money, had been seriously falling 
behind in this church, and that must be looked after immediately. In 
fact, he intimated clearly that that was the reason that Wilson had 
been sent here- to make a larger contribution of dollar money.

Wilson stressed the fact that clear as this was, they must have a 
better church, a more business-like conduct of the church organization, 
and an effort to get this religious center out of its rut of wild worship 
into a modern church organization. He emphasized to the Presiding 
Elder the plan of giving up the old church and moving across the 
river. The Presiding Elder was sure that that would be impossible. 
But he told Wilson to "go ahead and try". And Wilson tried.

It did seem impossible. The bank which held the mortgage on the 
old church declared that the interest was considerably in arrears, and 
the real estate people said flatly that the land across the river was 
being held for an eventual development for white working people who 
were coming in, and that none would be sold to colored folk. When it 
was proposed to rebuild the church, Wilson found that the terms for 
a new mortgage were very high. He was sure that he could do better if 
he went to Atlanta to get the deal financed.   But when this proposal 
was made to his Deacon Board, he met unanimous opposition. The 
church certainly would not be removed. The very proposition was sacrilege. 
It had been here fifty years. It was going to stay forever. 
It was hardly possible to get any argument on the subject. As for 
rebuilding, well, that might be looked into, but there was no hurry, no 
hurry at all.   Wilson again went downtown to a different banker, 
an intelligent young white man who seemed rather sympathetic, but 
he shook his head.   "Reverend", he said, "I think you don't 
quite understand the situation here. Don't you see the amount 
of money that has been invested by whites around that church? Tenements, 
stores, saloons, some gambling, I hope not too much. The colored 
people are getting employment at Kent House and other places, and 
they are near their places of employment. When a city has arranged 
things like this you cannot easily change them. Now, if I were you I 
would just plan to repair the old church so it would last for five or 
ten years. By that time, perhaps something better can be done".

Then Wilson asked, "What about this Kent House which you 
mention? I don't understand why a white hotel should be down here".

The young banker looked at him with a certain surprise, and 
then he said flatly: "I'm afraid I can't tell you anything 
in particular about Kent House. You'll have to find out about it 
on your own. Hope to see you again". And he dismissed the colored 
pastor.   It was next day that Sojourner came and sat beside 
him and took his hand. She said, "My dear, do you know what Kent 
House is"?   "No", said Wilson, "I don't. I was 
just asking about it. What is it"?   "It's a house of prostitution 
for white men with white girls as inmates. They hire 
a good deal of local labor, including two members of our Trustee Board. 
They buy some supplies from our colored grocers and they are patronized 
by some of the best white gentlemen in town".  Wilson stared 
at her. "My dear, you must be mistaken".   "Talk to 
Mrs& Catt", she said.   And after Wilson had talked to Mrs& 
Catt and to others, he was absolutely amazed. This, of course, was 
the sort of thing that used to take place in Southern cities- putting 
white houses of prostitution with colored girls in colored neighborhoods 
and carrying them on openly. But it had largely disappeared on 
account of protest by the whites and through growing resentment on the 
part of the Negroes as they became more educated and got better wages.

But this situation of Kent House was more subtle. The wages 
involved were larger and more regular. The inmates were white and 
from out of town, avoiding local friction. The backing from the white 
town was greater and there was little publicity. Good wages, patronage 
and subscription of various kinds stopped open protest from Negroes. 
And yet Wilson knew that this place must go or he must go. And 
for him to leave this job now without accomplishing anything would mean 
practically the end of his career in the Methodist church, if not 
in all churches. 
Payne dismounted in Madison Place and handed the reins to Herold. 
There was a fog, which increased the darkness of the night. Two gas 
lamps were no more than a misleading glow. He might have been anywhere 
or nowhere.   The pretence was that he was delivering a prescription 
from Dr& Verdi. Secretary of State Seward was a sick man. 
The idea had come from Herold, who had once been a chemist's clerk. 
The sick were always receiving medicines. No one would question 
such an errand. The bottle was filled up with flour.   Before Payne 
loomed the Old Clubhouse, Seward's home, where Key had once 
been killed. Now it would have another death. From the outside it 
was an ordinary enough house of the gentry. He clomped heavily up the 
stoop and rang the bell. Like the bell at Mass, the doorbell was pitched 
too high. It was still Good Friday, after all.   A nigger 
boy opened the door. Payne did not notice him. He was thinking chiefly 
of Cap. If their schedules were to synchronize, there was no point 
in wasting time. He pushed his way inside.   For a moment 
the hall confused him. This was the largest house he had ever been in, 
almost the largest building, except for a hotel. He had no idea where 
Seward's room would be. In the half darkness the banisters gleamed, 
and the hall seemed enormous. Above him somewhere were the bedrooms. 
Seward would be up there.   He explained his errand, but without 
bothering much to make it plausible, for he felt something well 
up in him which was the reason why he had fled the army. He did not 
really want to kill, but as in the sexual act, there was a moment when 
the impulse took over and could not be downed, even while you watched 
yourself giving way to it. He was no longer worried. Everything would 
be all right. He knew that in this mood he could not be stopped.

Still, the sensation always surprised him. It was a thrill he 
felt no part in. He could only watch with a sort of gentle dismay while 
his body did these quick, appalling, and efficient things.   He 
brushed by the idiotic boy and lumbered heavily up the stairs. They 
were carpeted, but made for pumps and congress gaiters, not the great 
clodhoppers he wore. The sound of his footsteps was like a muffled 
drum.   At the top of the stairs he ran into somebody standing there 
angrily in a dressing gown. He stopped and whispered his errand. 
Young Frederick Seward held out his hand. Panting a little, Payne 
shook his head. Dr& Verdi had told him to deliver his package in 
person.   Frederick Seward said his father was sleeping, and then 
went through a pantomime at his father's door, to prove the statement.

"Very well", Payne said. "I will go". He smiled, 
but now that he knew where the elder Seward was, he did not intend 
to go. He pulled out his pistol and fired it. It made no sound. It 
had misfired. Reversing it, he smashed the butt down on Frederick 
Seward's head, over and over again.   It was the first blow 
that was always difficult. After that, violence was exultantly easy. 
He got caught up into it and became a different person. Only afterwards 
did an act like that become meaningless, so that he would puzzle over 
it for days, whereas at the time it had seemed quite real. 
The nigger boy fled down the stairs, screaming, "Murder". 
It was not murder at all. Payne was more methodical than that. He 
was merely clearing a way to what he had to do.   He ran for the 
sick room, found his pistol was broken, and threw it away. A knife would 
do. From childhood he had known all about knives. Someone blocked 
the door from inside. He smashed it in and tumbled into darkness. 
He saw only dimly moving figures, but when he slashed them they yelled 
and fled. He went for the bed, jumped on it, and struck where he could, 
repeatedly. It was like finally getting into one's own nightmares 
to punish one's dreams.   Two men pulled him off. Nobody 
said anything. Payne hacked at their arms. There was a lady there, in 
a nightdress. He would not have wanted to hurt a lady. Another man 
approached, this one fully dressed. When the knife went into his chest, 
he went down at once.   "I'm mad", shouted Payne, as 
he ran out into the hall. "I'm mad", and only wished he had been. 
That would have made things so much easier. But he was not mad. He 
was only dreaming.   He clattered down the stairs and out of 
the door. Somewhere in the fog, the nigger boy was still yelling murder. 
One always wakes up, even from one's own dreams. The clammy air 
revived him. Herold, he saw, had fled.   Well, one did not expect 
much of people like Herold.   He unhitched his horse, walked 
it away, mounted, and spurred it on. The nigger boy was close 
behind him. Then the nigger boy turned back and he was alone. He rode 
on and on. He had no idea where he was. After some time he came to 
an open field. An open field was better than a building, that was for 
sure, so he dismounted, turned off the horse, and plunged through the 
grass.   He felt curiously sleepy, the world seemed far away; 
he knew he should get to Cap, but he didn't know how. He was sure, 
for he had done as he was told, hadn't he? Cap would find him 
and take care of him. So choosing a good tree, he clambered up into it, 
found a comfortable notch, and curled up in it to sleep, like the tousled 
bear he was, with his hands across his chest, as though surfeited 
with honey.   Violence always made him tired, but he was not 
frightened. ##

In Boston, Edwin Booth was winding up a performance 
of <A New Way to Pay Old Debts>. It was a part so familiar 
to him that he did not bother to think about it any more. Acting soothed 
him. On a stage he always knew what to do, and tonight, to judge 
by the applause, he must be doing it better than usual.   As 
Sir Giles Overreach (how often had he had to play that part, who did 
not believe a word of it), he raised his arm and declaimed: "Where 
is my honour now"?   That was one of the high spots of the 
play. The audience, as usual, loved it. He was delighted to see them 
so happy. If he had any worries, it was only the small ones, about 
Mother in New York, and his daughter Edwina and what she might be 
doing at this hour, with her Aunt Asia, in Philadelphia.   Everyone 
is ambivalent about his profession, if he has practised it long 
enough, but there were still moments when he loved the stage and all 
those unseen people out there, who might cheer you or boo you, but that 
was largely, though not entirely, up to you.   They made the 
world seem friendly somehow, though he knew it was not. #/7,#

Wilkes 
was quite right about one thing. Laura Keene had been in the 
green room. The commotion had brought her into the wings. Since she 
could not act, one part suited her as well as any other, and so she was 
the first person to offer Mr& Lincoln a glass of water, holding 
it 
up to the box, high above her head, to Miss Harris, who had asked for 
it.   She had been one of the first to collect her wits.

It was not so much that the shot had stunned the audience, as that 
they had been stunned already. Most of them had seen <Our American 
Cousin> before, and unless Miss Keene was on stage, there was not 
much to it. The theatre was hot and they were drugged with boredom.

The stage had been empty, except for Harry Hawk, doing his star 
monologue. The audience was fond of Harry Hawk, he was a dear, 
in or out of character, but he was not particularly funny. At the end 
of the monologue the audience would applaud. Meanwhile it looked at 
the scenery.   "Well, I guess I know enough to turn you inside 
out, you sockdologizing old mantrap"! said Trenchard, otherwise 
Hawk. There was always a pause here, before the next line. 
That was when the gun went off. Yet even that explosion did not mean 
much. Guns were going off all over Washington City these days, because 
of the celebrations, and the theatre was not soundproof.   Then 
the audience saw a small, dim figure appear at the edge of the Presidential 
box. "<Sic semper tyrannis>", it said mildly. Booth 
had delivered his line. Behind him billowed a small pungent cloud 
of smoke.   They strained forward. They had not heard what had 
been said. They had been sitting too long to be able to stand up easily. 
The figure leapt from the box, almost lost its balance, the flag 
draped there tore in the air, the figure landed on its left leg, fell 
on its hands, and pressed itself up.   Harry Hawk still had his 
arm raised towards the wings. His speech faltered. He did not lower 
his arm.   The figure was so theatrically dressed, that it was 
as though 
a character from some other play had blundered into this one. The 
play for Saturday night was to be a benefit performance of <The Octoroon>. 
This figure looked like the slave dealer from that. But it 
also looked like a toad, hopping away from the light. There was something 
maimed and crazy about its motion that disturbed them.   Then 
it disappeared into the wings.   Harry Hawk had not shifted 
position, but he at last lowered his arm.   Mrs& Lincoln screamed. 
There was no mistaking that scream. It was what anyone who had ever 
seen her had always expected her to do. Yet this scream had a different 
note in it. That absence of an urgent self-indulgence dashed them 
awake like a pail of water.   Clara Harris, one of the guests 
in the box, stood up and demanded water. Her action was involuntary. 
When something unexpected happened, one always asked for water if 
one were a woman, brandy if one were a man.   Mrs& lincoln screamed 
again.   In the Presidential box someone leaned over the 
balustrade and yelled: "He has shot the President"!   That 
got everybody up. On the stage, Harry Hawk began to weep. Laura 
Keene 
brushed by him with the glass of water. The crowd began to move. 
In Washington City everyone lived in a bubble of plots, and one death 
might attract another. It was not exactly panic they gave way to, 
but they could not just sit there. The beehive voices, for no one could 
bear silence, drowned out the sound of Mrs& Lincoln's weeping.

At the rear of the auditorium, upstairs, some men tried to 
push open the door to the box corridor. It would not give.   A 
Dr& Charles Taft clambered up on the stage and got the actors to 
hoist him up to the box. In the audience a man named Ferguson lost 
his head and tried to rescue a little girl from the mob, on the same principle 
which had led Miss Harris to demand water.   Someone 
opened the corridor door from the inside, and called for a doctor. Somehow 
Dr& Charles Leale was forced through the mob and squeezed out 
into the dingy corridor. He went straight to the Presidential box.

As usual, Mrs& Lincoln had lost her head, but nobody blamed 
her for doing so now. There was a little blood on the hem of her dress, 
for the assassin had slashed Miss Harris's companion, Major 
Rathbone, with a knife. Rathbone said he was bleeding to death. By 
the look of him he wasn't that far gone. 
With a sneer, the man spread his legs and, a third time, confronted them.

Once more, Katie reared, and whinnied in fear. For a moment, 
boy and mount hung in midair. Stevie twisted and, frantically, 
commanded the mare to leap straight ahead. But the stranger was nimbler 
still. With a bold arm, he dared once more to obstruct them. Katie 
reared a third time, then, trembling, descended.   The stranger 
leered. Seizing the bridle, he tugged with all his might and forced 
Katie to her knees. It was absurd. Stevie could feel himself toppling. 
He saw the ground coming up- and the stranger's head. With 
incredible ferocity, he brought his fists together and struck. The blow 
encountered silky hair and hard bone. The man uttered a weird cry, 
spun about, and collapsed in the sand.   Katie scrambled to her 
feet, Stevie agilely retaining his seat. Again Katie reared, and now, 
wickedly, he compelled her to bring her hooves down again and again 
upon the sprawled figure of the stranger. He could feel his own feet, 
iron-shod, striking repeatedly until the body was limp. He gloated, 
and his lips slavered. He heard himself chortling.   They rode 
around and around to trample the figure into the sand. Only the top 
of the head, with a spot bare and white as a clamshell, remained visible. 
Stevie was shouting triumphantly.   A train hooted. Instantly, 
he chilled. They were pursuing him. He was frightened; his fists 
clutched so tightly that his knuckles hurt. Then Katie stumbled, 
and again he was falling, falling!   "Stevie! Stevie"!

His mother was nudging him, but he was still falling. His head hung 
over the boards of Katie's stall; before it was sprawled the 
mangled corpse of the bearded stranger.   "Stevie, wake up now! 
We're nearly there".   He had been dreaming. He was safe 
in his Mama's arms.   The train had slowed. Houses winked 
as the cars rolled beside a little depot. "Po' Chavis"! the 
trainman 
called. He came by and repeated, "Po' Chavis"! 

#CHAPTER 
6#

<Bong! Bong!> startled him awake. The room vibrated as 
if a giant hand had rocked it. <Bong!> a dull boom and a throbbing 
echo. The walls bulged, the floor trembled, the windowpanes rattled. 
He stared at the far morning, expecting a pendulum to swing across the 
horizon. <Bong!> He raced to the window and yanked at the sash. 
<Bong!> the wood was old, the paint alligatored. <Bong!> A 
fresh breeze saluted him. <Six> o'clock!   He put his his 
head out. There was the slate roof of the church; ivy climbed the 
red brick walls like a green-scaled monster. The clock which had struck 
presented an innocent face.   In the kitchen Mama was wiping 
the cupboards.   "There's a tower and a steeple on the church 
a million feet high. And the loudest clock in the whole world"!

"I know, Stephen", she smiled. "They say that our 
steeple is one hundred and sixty-two feet high. The clock you heard strike- 
it's really the town clock- was installed last April by 
Mrs& Shorter, on her birthday".   He dressed, and sped outdoors. 
He crossed Broome Street to Orange Square. The steeple leaned 
backward, while the church advanced like a headless creature in a 
long, shapeless coat. The spire seemed to hold up the sky.   Port 
Jervis, basking in the foothills, was the city of God. The Dutch 
Reformed Church, with two steeples and its own school was on Main 
Street; the Episcopal Church was one block down Sussex Street; 
the Catholic Saint Mary's Church, with an even taller steeple 
and a cross on top, stood on Ball Street. The Catholics had the 
largest cemetery, near the Neversink River where Main Street ran south; 
Stevie whistled when he passed these alien grounds.   God 
was everywhere, in the belfry, in the steeple, in the clouds, in the 
trees, and in the mountains hulking on the horizon. Somewhere, beyond, 
where shadows lurked, must be the yawning pit of which Papa preached 
and the dreadful Lake of Fire.   So, walking in awe, he became 
familiar with God, who resided chiefly in Drew Centennial Church 
with its high steeple and clock. There was no church like Drew Church, 
no preacher like Papa, who was intimate with Him, and could consign 
sinners to hellfire. To know God he must follow in Papa's 
footsteps. He was fortunate, and proud.   The veterans, idling 
on their benches in the Square, beneath the soldiers' monument, got 
to 
their feet when Papa approached: "Morning, Reverend"! His 
being and His will- Stevie could not divide God from his Papa- 
illumined every parish face, turned the choir into a band of angels, 
and the pulpit into the tollgate to Heaven.   "We have nine 
hundred and eleven members in our charge", Mama announced, "and three 
hundred and eighty Sunday-school scholars".   When Papa 
went out to do God's work, Stevie often accompanied him in the buggy, 
which was drawn by Violet, the new black mare. Although they journeyed 
westerly as far as Germantown, beyond the Erie roundhouse and 
the machine shop, and along the Delaware and Hudson Canal, and northward 
to Brooklyn, below Point Peter, he could see the church spire 
wherever he looked back. Sometimes they went south and rolled past 
the tollhouse- "Afternoon, Reverend"!- and crossed the suspension 
bridge to Matamoras; that was Pennsylvania.   In the 
Delaware River, three long islands were overgrown with greening trees 
and underbrush. South of Laurel Grove Cemetery, and below the 
junction of the Neversink and the Delaware, was the Tri-State Rock, 
from which Stevie could spy New Jersey and Pennsylvania, as well 
as New York, simply by spinning around on his heel.   On these 
excursions, Papa instructed him on man's chief end, which was his 
duty to God and his own salvation. However, a boy's lively eyes might 
rove. Where Cuddleback Brook purled into the Neversink was a magnificent 
swimming hole. Papa pointed a scornful finger at the splashing 
youth: "Idle recreation"! Stevie saw no idols; it troubled 
him that he couldn't always see what Papa saw. He was torn between 
the excitement in the sun-inflamed waters and a little engine chugging 
northward on the Monticello Branch.   "Where you been 
today"? Ludie inquired every evening, pretending that he did not 
care. "He'll make a preacher out of you"!   "No, he 
won't"! Stevie flared. "Not me"!   "Somebody's 
got to be a preacher in the family. He made a will and last testament 
before we left Paterson. I heard them! Uncle and Aunt Howe were 
the witnesses".   "Will he die"?   "Everybody 
does".   Ludie could be hateful. To speak of Papa dying was 
a sin. It could never happen as long as God was alert and the Drew 
steeple stood guard with its peaked lance.   Stevie was constantly 
slipping into the church. He pulled with all his strength at the 
heavy, brass-bound door, and shuffled along the wainscoted wall. The 
cold, mysterious presence of God was all around him. At the end of a 
shaft of light, the pews appeared to be broad stairs in a long dungeon. 
Far away, standing before a curtained window in the study room, was 
his father, hands tucked under his coattails, and staring into the dark 
church. The figure was wreathed in an extraordinary luminescence.

The boy shuddered at the deathly pale countenance with its wrinkles 
and gray hair. Would Papa really die? The mouth was thin-lipped 
and wide, the long cleft in the upper lip like a slide. When Papa's 
slender fingers removed the spectacles, there were red indentations 
on the bridge of the strong nose.   "It's time you began 
to think on God, Stephen. Perhaps one day He will choose you as 
He chose me, long ago. Therefore, give Him your affection and store 
up His love for you. Open your heart to Him and pray, Stephen, pray! 
For His mercy and His guidance to spare you from evil and eternal 
punishment in the Lake of Fire".   Stevie had heard these 
words many times, yet on each occasion they caused him to tremble. 
For he feared the Lake of Fire. He strove to think of God and His 
eternal wrath; he must pray to be spared.   Papa was disappointed 
that none of the brothers had heard the Call. Not George, Townley, 
or Ted, certainly not Ludie. Burt was at Hackettstown and 
Will at Albany Law School, where they surely could not hear it. Someday 
God would choose <him>. He would hear the Call and would run 
to tell Papa. The stern face would relax, the black-clad arms would 
embrace him, "My son"! Yet how might he know the Call when 
it came? Probably, as in Scriptures, a still, small voice would whisper. 
It would summon him once; if he missed it, never again. What 
if it came when he was playing, or was asleep and dreaming?

He must not fail to hear it. He was Papa's chosen; therefore, 
nothing but good could happen to him, even in God's wrathful storms. 
When the skies grew dark and thunder rolled across the valley, he 
was unafraid. Aggie might fly into a closet, shut the door and bury her 
head in the clothes; he dared to wait for the lightning.   Lightning 
could strike you blind if you were a sinner! But he was good. 
He clenched his fists and faced the terror. Thunder crashed; 
barrels tumbled down the mountainsides, and bounced and bounced till their 
own fury split them open. Lightning might strike the steeples of 
the other churches; not of Drew Church. A flash illumined the trees 
as a crooked bolt twigged in several directions. Violet whinnied 
from the stable.   He ran out into the downpour, sped across the 
yard and into the buggy room. "Don't be afraid, Violet"! he 
shouted, and was aghast at the echoes. "Don't you be afraid"! 
He would save her. If there was a fire or a flood he would save Mama 
first and Violet next. Drenched and shaking, he stood near the sweet-smelling 
stall and dared to pat her muzzle. "Don't you be afraid, 
Violet"!   After the storm, the sky cleared blue and cool, 
and fragrant air swept the hills. When the sun came out, Stevie 
strode proudly into Orange Square, smiling like a landlord on industrious 
tenants. The fountain had brimmed over, the cannon were wet, the 
soldiers' monument glistened. Even before the benches had dried, 
the Civil War veterans were straggling back to their places. The great 
spire shone as if the lightning had polished it. He jumped. The 
pointed shadow had nearly touched him.   He trailed Ludie to the 
baseball game in the lot on Kingston Street near the Dutch Reformed.

"Go on home"! Ludie screeched at him. "Someone'll 
tell Papa"!   No one told on Ludie, not even when he 
slipped live grasshoppers into the mite-box. Ludie did as he pleased.

Ludie took his slingshot and climbed to the rooftop to shoot 
at 
crows. Ludie chewed roofer's tar. Ludie had a cigar box full of 
marbles and shooters, and a Roman candle from last Fourth of July. 
Ludie hopped rides on freight cars, and was chased by Mr& Yankton, 
the railroad guard. He came home overheated, ran straight to the ice-chest, 
and gulped shivery cold water.   Stevie envied him. That 
Ludie! He, too, cocked his cap at a jaunty angle, jingled marbles 
in his pocket, and swaggered down Main Street. On the Christophers' 
lawn, little girls in white pinafores were playing grownups at 
a tea party. A Newfoundland sat solemnly beside a doghouse half his 
size. Stevie yearned for a dog. He wondered whether God had a dog in 
the sky.   He meandered down Pike Street, past the First National 
Bank with its green window shades. He crossed the tracks to 
Delaware House, where ladies in gay dresses and men in straw boaters 
and waxed mustaches crowded the verandah. A tall lady, with a ruffled 
collar very low on her bosom, turned insolent green eyes upon him. She 
was taller than Aggie. She was so beautiful with her rosy mouth 
and haughty air that she had to be wicked. Fiddles screeched; a piano 
tinkled.   "P& J&"- as Ludie called the town- was 
crowded with summer people who came to the mountains to escape the 
heat in the big cities. They stayed at hotels and boardinghouses, or 
at private homes. Rich people went to Delaware House, Opera House, 
American House or Fowler House. 
<If the crummy bastard could write!> That's how it should be. 
<It's those two fucken niggers! Krist, I wish they could write!> 
Nigger pussy. He thought of sweet wet nigger pussy. <Oh, 
sweet 
land of heaven, haint there just nothin like sweet nigger pussy!> 
He thought of her, the first one. He had caught her coming out of the 
shack. She was a juicy one. <Oh how they bounced!> Fresh, warm, 
sweet and juicy, sweet lovin sixteen, she was. <Man how I love 
nigger pussy!> The snow came a little faster now, he noted. He thought 
of Joe Harris, the nigger who had gone after his sister. He chuckled, 
the memory vivid. <Jee- sus, We Fixed him! Yooee, we 
fixed him!> The snow again. <If only the fucken weather wasn't 
so lousy! Goddamn niggers, Lord. What I have to put up with! 
Sonuvabitch, I can't figure out what in hell for they went and put 
niggers in my squad for. Only one worth a shit, and that's Brandon. 
He ain't so bad> **h   His thoughts turned to other things 
**h The big shock everybody had when they found ol Slater and those 
others done for. <Kaboom for>.   He had been pretty scared 
himself, wondering what the hell was coming off. But he soon saw which 
way the ball was bouncing. Soon came back to his senses. "I soon 
came back to my senses", he said, aloud, to the young blizzard, proudly, 
drawing himself up, as if making a report to some important superior 
**h <I was the first to get my squad on the ball, and anybody 
thinkin it was easy is pretty damn dumb. Look at thum. That goddamn 
redheader was the worst. He kept sayin, not me, not me, I don't wanta 
wind up like em. But I told him, goddammit>. "I told him", 
he said aloud **h <They'll get the guys that done it. That'll 
put the place back to normal>. Normal, <by God. Maybe it's a good 
thing it happened. Maybe they'll stop it now, once for all. Clean 
the place up. They're doin it now. I hear the whole bunch is croakin 
out in the snow>. They'll get the guys that done it **h There 
was something troubling him though: as yet <they hadn't> **h 
Five days **h <Keerist> **h Prickly twinges of annoyance ran through 
him. His eyes blinked hard, snapping on and squashing some bad things 
that were 
trying to push their way into him. A tune began to whirl 
inside his head. One of his favorites: "Guitar Boogie". It 
always came on, faithfully, just like a radio or juke box, whenever he 
started to worry too much about something, when the bad things tried 
to push their way into him. The music drove them off, or away, and he 
was free to walk on air in a very few moments, humming and jiving within, 
beating the rhythm within. He glowed with anticipation about what 
would happen to the culprits when they caught them **h <Turn the 
bastards over to me- to me and my boys- no nigger ever got what would 
be comin to them>- reactionary bastards **h. He had never heard 
the word reactionary before his life as a ~POW began. It was 
a word he was proud of, a word that meant much to him, and he used it 
with great pleasure, almost as if it were an exclusive possession, and 
more: he sensed himself to be very highly educated, four cuts above 
any of the folks back home **h "<Four cuts at least>", he chuckled 
to himself, "<and I owe it all to them>". The word also 
made him feel hate, sincere hate, for those so labeled. He used it very 
effectively when he wanted to get his squad on the ball. It came up 
again and again in the discussion sessions **h <Lousy Reactionary 
bastards been tryin to fuck up the Program for months. Months. Hired, 
hard lackeys of the Warmongering Capitalists. Not captured, sent 
here. To fuck up the Program. You guys remember that. Remember that> 
**h He heard himself haranguing them. He saw himself before them 
delivering the speech. He laughed, suddenly, feeling a surge of power 
telling him of his hold over them, seeing himself before them, receiving 
utmost respect and attention. One day, Ching had told him (smiling, 
patting him on the back) as they walked to the weekly conference 
of squad leaders, "Keep it up, your squad is good, one of the best, 
keep it up, keep up the good work". He would! That was really 
something, coming from Ching **h "Really something", he said, aloud 
**h <Dirty Reactionary bastards comin down here in the night and 
bumpin off ol Slater and those other poor bastards>. "They'll 
get them by God and let them bring them down here to me, just let them, 
God I'll slice their balls right off **h" His arm moved swiftly, 
violently, once, twice. He felt intense satisfaction. He was 
tingling within. Before him, mutilated, bleeding to death, they lay. 
It was as if it had been done. "Bastards", he said aloud, spitting 
on them. He halted, and looked around. Rivers of cold sweat were 
suddenly unleashed within him. The thought came back, the one nagging 
at him these past four days. He tried to stifle it. But the words were 
forming. He knew he couldn't. He braced himself **h <Somebody'll 
hafta start thinkin> **h He fought it, seeking to kill the last 
few words, but on they came **h <bout takin>- <his> **h He was 
trembling, a strange feeling upon him, fully expecting some catastrophe 
to strike him dead on the spot. But it didn't. And he took heart; 
the final word came forth **h <place> **h Now he heard it, fully: 
"**h <bout takin his place> **h" He listened, waited, nothing 
happened. He felt good. His old self. The music arrived, taking 
him **h its rhythm stroked him, snaked all through him, the lyrics 
lifted him, took him from one magic isle to another, stopping briefly 
at each **h <Brandon. He is good. Damn good. But a nigger. Johnson. 
Jesus, the guy says he is trying. But he isn't with it, not 
at all with it. When I talked to Ching about it, he said, Everyone 
can learn, if he is not a Reactionary or lazy. No one is stupid. That's 
what he said. He oughta know. It is plain as hell Johnson is 
no Reactionary. So you're not tryin, Johnson, you bastard you> 
**h He looked over at him, lying there, asleep, and he felt a wave of 
revulsion. How he loathed him. Sleepy-eyed, soft-spoken Johnson **h 
<Biggest thorn in my side of the whole fucken squad> **h He was 
the guy what always goofed at Question Time **h <Why couldn't they 
have dumped him off on someone else? Why me? Why didn't the 
damn Reactionaries bump him off? Why Slater?> **h Like a particle 
drawn to a magnet he returned to that which was pressing so hard 
in his mind. The music surged up, but it failed to check it. <Who 
is the man to take His place? The guy with most on the Ball>. Most 
on the Ball. <Handle men. Thoroughly Wised Up. Knows the score> 
**h With a supreme effort, he broke it off. He turned to the 
window again. A gnawing and gnashing within him. The snow was tumbling 
down furiously now. Huge glob-flakes hitting the ground, piling higher 
and higher. He stared at it, amazed, alarmed **h <The whole fucken 
sky's cavin in! Keeeerist! Lookit it! Cover the whole 
building, bury us all, by nightfall. Jesus! **h Somebody, got to be 
somebody **h If I don't put my two cents in soon, somebody else 
will **h I know they're waitin only for one thing: for the bastards 
what done it to be nailed. Maybe they already got them>. He was 
again tingling with pleasure, seeing himself clearly in Slater's shoes. 
<Top dog, sleeping and eating right there with the Staff. Ching, 
Tien, all of them **h Top dog **h Poor ol Slater **h Jesus, imagine, 
the crummy bastards, they'll get em, they'll get what's 
comin to em> **h He whirled about suddenly. It was nothing, though 
his heart was thumping wildly. Somebody was up. That was all. 
"Boy, you're stirrin early", a sleepy voice said.   "Yehhh", 
said Coughlin, testily, eyeing him up and down.   "Lookit 
that come down, willya", said the man, scratching himself, yawning.

"Yehhh", said Coughlin, practically spitting on him.

The man moved away.   <That's the way. They'll toe 
the line. Goddamn it. Keep the chatter to a minimum, short answers, 
one word, if possible. Less bull the more you can do with um. That's 
Brown's trouble. All he does is to bullshit with his squad, 
and they are the stupidest bastards around. Just about to get their asses 
kicked into hut Seven. Plenty of room there now. All those dumb 
8-Balls croaked. You can do anything with these dumb fucks if you 
know how. Anything. They'd cut their mothers' belly open. Give 
um the works. See,> he's <already snapping it up, the dumb jerk> 
**h Coughlin grinned, feeling supremely on top of things **h He watched 
the snow once again. It infuriated him. It made no sense to him 
**h He whirled around, suddenly hot all over, finding the man who had 
been standing before him a few moments back, nailing him to the spot 
on which he now stood, open-mouthed-   "You- Listen!- 
name William Foster's Four Internal Contradictions in Capitalism. 
Quick- Quick- NOW"!   The man shrank before 
the hot fury, searching frantically for the answer **h   Finnegan 
woke up. There was a hell of a noise this time of morning. He stared 
out the window. <For Christ's sake! The whole fucken sky's 
caved in!> He looked for the source of the noise that had awakened 
him **h It was that prick Coughlin. What the hell was he up 
to now? Why didn't he drop dead? How did they miss him when they 
got Slater? <How?> **h Then he was asking himself the usual 
early morning questions: <What the Hell am I doin here? Is 
this a nut-house? Am I nuts? Is this for real? Am I dreamin?> 
**h   From somewhere in the hut came Coughlin's voice.

"How long did you study? How long, buddy"?   "For 
Christ's sake"! a voice pleaded.   "Don't Christsake 
me, buddy! Just answer. C'mon- <c'mon!>" 
**h <I'm no hero. Did I start the damn war? **h Automatically, 
Finnegan started going over today's lesson **h Capitalism rots from 
the core. Did I start the damn war? Who did? That's a good 
one. I thought I knew. Why don't Uncle Sam mind his own fucken 
business? I'll bet both together did. I bet. So fuck them both. 
Goddamn. Goddammit. Just let me go home to Jersey, back to the 
shore, oh, Jesus, the shore. The waves breakin in on you and your girl 
at night there on the warm beach in the moonlight even Jesus sweet 
Mary. If I hafta do this to stay alive by God I'll do it. I 
hated the goddamn army from the first day I got in anyhow. All pricks 
like Coughlin run it anyway, one way or another. Fuck them> **h He 
rolled over and tried to shut out the noise, now much louder. He snuggled 
into the blanket **h ##

Brandon dreamed. <He was sitting 
on top of a log which was spinning round and around in the water. A 
river, wide as the Missouri, where it ran by his place. The log was 
spinning. But he was not>. So what? Why should I be spinning just 
because the goddamn log is spinning? (he asked this out loud, but 
no one heard it over the other noise in the hut). <Over on the bank, 
the west bank, a man stood, calling to him. He couldn't make out 
what he was saying. No doubt it had to do with the log. Why should 
he be concerned>?

Rousseau is so persuasive that Voltaire is almost convinced that 
he should burn his books, too. But while the two men are riding into 
the country, where they are going to dinner, they are attacked in 
the dark of the forest by a band of thieves, who strip them of everything, 
including most of their clothes.   "You must be a very learned 
man", says Voltaire to one of the bandits.   "A learned 
man"? the bandit laughs in his face.   But Voltaire perseveres. 
He goes to the chief himself. "At what university did you 
study"? he asks. He refuses to believe that the bandit chief never 
attended a higher institution. "To have become so corrupt", he 
says, "surely you must have studied many arts and sciences".

The chief, annoyed by these questions, knocks Voltaire down and shouts 
at him that he not only never went to any school, but never even 
learned how to read.   When finally the two bedraggled men reach 
their friend's home, Voltaire's fears are once again aroused. 
For it is such a distinguished place, with such fine works of art and 
such a big library, that there can be little doubt but that the owner 
has become depraved by all this culture.   To Voltaire's surprise, 
however, their host gives them fresh clothes to put on, opens his 
purse to lend them money and sits them down before a good dinner.

Immediately after dinner, however, Rousseau asks for still another 
favor. Could he have pen and paper, please? He is in a hurry 
to write another essay against culture.   Such was the impromptu 
that Voltaire gave to howls of laughter at Sans Souci and that was 
soon circulated in manuscript throughout the literary circles of Europe, 
to be printed sometime later, but with the name of Timon of Athens, 
the famous misanthrope, substituted for that of Rousseau. 
How cruel!   But at the same time how understandable. How could 
the rich, for whom life was made so simple, ever understand the subterfuges, 
the lies, the frauds, the errors, sins and even crimes to 
which the poor were driven in their efforts to overcome the great advantages 
the rich had in the race of life?   How, for example, 
could a Voltaire understand the strange predicament in which a Rousseau 
would find himself when, soon after the furor of his first <Discourse,> 
he acquired still another title to fame?   This time 
as a musician. As a composer.   Ever since he had first begun 
to study music and to teach it, Rousseau had dreamed of piercing through 
to fame as the result of a successful opera. But his facility in 
this genre was not great. And his efforts to get a performance for his 
<Gallant Muses> invariably failed. And for good reasons. His 
operatic music had little merit.   But then one day, while on a 
week's visit to the country home of a retired Swiss jeweler, Rousseau 
amused the company with a few little melodies he had written, to which 
he attached no great importance. He was really amazed to discover 
the other guests so excited about these delicate little songs.

"Put a few such songs together", they urged him. "String them 
onto some sort of little plot, and you'll have a delightful operetta".

He didn't believe them. "Nonsense", he said. "This 
is the sort of stuff I write and then throw away"!   "Heaven 
forbid"! cried the ladies, enchanted by his music. "You 
must make an opera out of this material".   And they wouldn't 
leave off arguing and pleading until he had promised.   Oh, 
the irony and the bitterness of it! That after all his years of effort 
to become a composer, he should now, now when he was still stoutly 
replying to the critics of his <Discourse on the Arts and Sciences,> 
be so close to a success in music and have to reject it. 
Or at least appear to reject it!   But what else could he do? 
You couldn't on the one hand decry the arts and at the same time 
practice them, could you? Well, yes, perhaps in literature, since 
you could argue that you couldn't keep silent about your feelings against 
literature and so were involved in spite of yourself. But now music 
too? No. That would be too much!   And the fault, of 
course, was Rameau's. The fault was Rameau's and that of the whole 
culture of this Parisian age. For it was Rameau's type of music 
that he had been trying to write, and that he couldn't write. These 
little songs, however, were sweet nothings from the heart, tender 
memories of his childhood, little melodies that anyone could hum and 
that would make one want to weep.   But no. He couldn't appear 
as a composer now. That glory, craved for so long, was now forbidden 
to him. Still, just for the ladies, and just for this once, for this 
one weekend in the country, he would make a little piece out of his 
melodies.   The ladies were delighted and Jean Jacques was applauded. 
And everyone went to work to learn the parts which he wrote.

But then, after the little operetta had been given its feeble 
amateur rendering, everyone insisted that it was too good to be lost 
forever, and that the Royal Academy of Music must now have the manuscript 
in order to give it the really first-rate performance it merited.

Rousseau was aware that he must seem like a hypocrite, standing 
there and arguing that he could not possibly permit a public performance. 
The ladies especially couldn't understand what troubled him. 
A contradiction? Bah, what was a contradiction in one's life? 
Every woman has had the experience of saying no when she meant yes, 
and saying yes when she meant no.   Rousseau had to admit that 
though he couldn't agree to a public performance, he would indeed, 
just for his own private satisfaction, dearly love to know how his work 
would sound when done by professional musicians and by trained voices.

"I'd simply like to know if it is as good as you kind people 
seem to think", he said.   Duclos, the historian, pointed 
out to Jean Jacques that this was impossible. The musicians of the 
Royal Opera would not rehearse a work merely to see how it would sound. 
Merely to satisfy the author's curiosity.   Rousseau agreed. 
But he recalled that Rameau had once had a private performance 
of his opera <Armide,> behind closed doors, just for himself alone.

Duclos understood what was bothering Rousseau: that the writer 
of the Prosopopoeia of Fabricius should now become known as the 
writer of an amusing little operetta. That would certainly be paradoxical. 
But Duclos thought he saw a way out.   "Let me do the 
submitting to the Royal Academy", he suggested. "Your name will 
never appear. No one will even suspect that it is your work".

To that Rousseau could agree.   But now what crazy twists 
and turns of his emotions!   Afraid at one and the same time 
that his work might be turned down- which would be a blow to his pride 
even though no one knew he was the author- and that the work would 
be accepted, and then that his violent feelings in the matter would 
certainly betray how deeply concerned he was in spite of himself. And 
how anxious this lover of obscurity was for applause! And thus torn 
between his desire to be known as the composer of a successful opera 
and the necessity of remaining true to his proclaimed desire for anonymity, 
Rousseau suffered through several painful weeks.   All these 
emotions were screwed up to new heights when, after acceptance and 
the first rehearsals, there ensued such a buzz of excitement among Parisian 
music lovers that Duclos had to come running to Rousseau to 
inform him that the news had reached the superintendent of the King's 
amusements, and that he was now demanding that the work be offered 
first at the royal summer palace of Fontainebleau. Imagine the honor 
of it!   "What was your answer"? Jean Jacques asked, 
striving to appear unimpressed.   "I refused", Duclos said. 
"What else could I do? Monsieur de Cury was incensed, of course. 
But I said I would first have to get the author's permission. 
And I was certain he would refuse".   How infuriating all 
this was! Why had not this success come to him before he had plunged 
into his <Discourse,> and before he had committed himself to a life 
of austerity and denial? Now, when everything was opening up to 
him- even the court of Louis /15,!- he had to play a role of 
self-effacement.   Back and forth Duclos had to go, between M& 
de Cury and Jean Jacques and between the Duke d'Aumont and Jean 
Jacques again, as his little operetta, <The Village Soothsayer,> 
though still unperformed, took on ever more importance.   And 
of course the news of who the composer was did finally begin to get 
around among his closest friends. But they, naturally, kept his secret 
well, and the public at large knew only of a great excitement in musical 
and court circles.   How titillating it was to go among people 
who did not know him as the composer, but who talked in the most 
glowing terms of the promise of the piece after having heard the first 
rehearsals. The furor was such that people who could not possibly have 
squirmed their way into the rehearsals were pretending that they were 
intimate with the whole affair and that it would be sensational. And 
listening to such a conversation one morning while taking a cup of 
chocolate in a cafe, Rousseau found himself bathed in perspiration, 
trembling lest his authorship become known, and at the same time dreaming 
of the startling effect he would make if he should proclaim himself 
suddenly as the composer.   He felt himself now, as he himself 
says in his <Confessions,> at a crucial point of his life. And that 
was why, on the day of the performance, when a carriage from the royal 
stables called to take him to the palace, he did not bother to shave. 
On the contrary, he was pleased that his face showed a neglect of 
several days.   Seeing him in that condition, and about to enter 
the hall where the King, the Queen, the whole royal family and all 
the members of the highest aristocracy would be present, Grimm and the 
Abbe Raynal and others tried to stop him.   "You can't 
go in that way"! they cried.   "Why not"? Jean Jacques 
asked. "Who is going to stop me"?   "You haven't dressed 
for the occasion"! they pointed out to him.   "I'm 
dressed as I always am", Rousseau said. "Neither better nor worse".

"At home, yes", they argued. "But here you are 
in the palace. There's the King. And Madame de Pompadour".

"If they are here, then surely I have the right to be here", 
Rousseau said. "And even more right. Since I am the composer"!

"But in such a slovenly condition".   "What 
is slovenly about me"? Rousseau asked. "Is it because of my slovenliness 
that hair grows on my face? Surely it would grow there 
whether 
I washed myself or not. A hundred years ago I would have worn 
a beard with pride. And those without beards would have stood out as 
not dressed for the occasion. Now times have changed, and I must pretend 
that hair doesn't grow on my face. That's the fashion. And 
fashion is the real king here. Not Louis /15,, since even he obeys. 
Now, if you don't mind, I should like to hear my own piece performed".

But of course behind his boldness he didn't feel bold 
at all. He trembled lest his piece should fail. And this in addition 
to his usual fear of being among people of high society. His fear 
of making some inane or inappropriate remark. And even deeper than 
that: his fear lest in this closed hall he should suddenly itch to 
relieve himself. Could he walk out in the midst of his piece? Here, 
before the court? Before the King? 
It was the first time any of us had laughed since the morning began. 
##

The rider from Concord was as good as his word. He came spurring 
and whooping down the road, his horse kicking up clouds of dust, 
shouting:   "They're a-coming! By God, they're a-coming, 
they are"!   We heard him before he ever showed, and we 
heard him yelling after he was out of sight. Solomon Chandler hadn't 
misjudged the strength of his lungs, not at all. I think you could 
have heard him a mile away, and he was bursting at every seam with 
importance. I have observed that being up on a horse changes the whole 
character of a man, and when a very small man is up on a saddle, he'd 
like as not prefer to eat his meals there. That's understandable, 
and I appreciate the sentiment. As for this rider, I never saw 
him before or afterwards and never saw him dismounted, so whether he stood 
tall or short in his shoes, I can't say; but I do know that 
he gave the day tone and distinction. The last thing in the world that 
resembled a war was our line of farmers and storekeepers and mechanics 
perched on top of a stone wall, and this dashing rider made us feel 
a good deal sharper and more alert to the situation.   We came 
down off the wall as if he had toppled all of us, and we crouched behind 
it. I have heard people talk with contempt about the British regulars, 
but that only proves that a lot of people talk about things of 
which they are deplorably ignorant. Whatever we felt about the redcoats, 
we respected them in terms of their trade, which was killing; and 
I know that I, myself, was nauseated with apprehension and fear and 
that my hands were soaking wet where they held my gun. I wanted to wipe 
my flint, but I didn't dare to, the state my hands were in, just 
as I didn't dare to do anything about the priming. The gun would 
fire or not, just as chance willed. I put a lot more trust in my two 
legs than in the gun, because the most important thing I had learned 
about war was that you could run away and survive to talk about it.

The gunfire, which was so near that it seemed just a piece up the 
road now, stopped for long enough to count to twenty; and in that 
brief 
interval, a redcoat officer came tearing down the road, whipping 
his horse fit to kill. I don't know whether he was after our rider, 
who had gone by a minute before, or whether he was simply scouting conditions; 
but when he passed us by, a musket roared, and he reared his 
horse, swung it around, and began to whip it back in the direction 
from which he had come. He was a fine and showy rider, but his skill 
was wasted on us. From above me and somewhere behind me, a rifle cracked. 
The redcoat officer collapsed like a punctured bolster, and the 
horse reared and threw him from the saddle, except that one booted foot 
caught in the stirrup. Half crazed by the weight dragging, the dust, 
and the heat, the horse leaped our wall, dashing out the rider's brains 
against it, and leaving him lying there among us- while the horse 
crashed away through the brush.   It was my initiation to war 
and the insane symphony war plays; for what had happened on the common 
was only terror and flight; but this grinning, broken head, not 
ten feet away from me, was the sharp definition of what my reality had 
become.   And now the redcoats were coming, and the gunfire was 
a part of the dust cloud on the road to the west of us. I must state 
that the faster things happened, the slower they happened; the passage 
and rhythm of time changed, and when I remember back to what happened 
then, each event is a separate and frozen incident. In my recollection, 
there was a long interval between the death of the officer and 
the appearance of the first of the retreating redcoats, and in that interval 
the dust cloud over the road seems to hover indefinitely. Yet 
it could not have been more than a matter of seconds, and then the front 
of the British army came into view.   It was only hours since 
I had last seen them, but they had changed and I had changed. In 
the very front rank, two men were wounded and staggered along, trailing 
blood behind them. No drummers here, no pipers, and the red coats 
were covered with a fine film of dust. They marched with bayonets fixed, 
and as fixed on their faces was anger, fear, and torment. Rank after 
rank of them came down the road, and the faces were all the same, 
and they walked in a sea of dust.   "Committeemen, hold your fire! 
Hold your fire"! a voice called, and what made it even more 
terrible 
and unreal was that the redcoat ranks never paused for an instant, 
only some of them glancing toward the stone wall, from behind which 
the voice came.   The front of their column had already passed 
us, when another officer came riding down the side of the road, not 
five paces from where we were. My Cousin Simmons carried a musket, 
but he had loaded it with bird shot, and as the officer came opposite 
him, he rose up behind the wall and fired. One moment there was a man 
in the saddle; the next a headless horror on a horse that bolted through 
the redcoat ranks, and during the next second or two, we all of 
us fired into the suddenly disorganized column of soldiers. One moment, 
the road was filled with disciplined troops, marching four by four 
with a purpose as implacable as death; the next, a cloud of gun smoke 
covered a screaming fury of sound, out of which the redcoat soldiers 
emerged with their bayonets and their cursing fury.   In the course 
of this, they had fired on us; but I have no memory of that. I 
had squeezed the trigger of my own gun, and to my amazement, it had 
fired and kicked back into my shoulder with the force of an angry mule; 
and then I was adding my own voice to the crescendo of sound, hurling 
more vile language than I ever thought I knew, sobbing and shouting, 
and aware that if I had passed water before, it was not enough, 
for my pants were soaking wet.   I would have stood there and died 
there if left to myself, but Cousin Simmons grabbed my arm in his 
viselike grip and fairly plucked me out of there; and then I came 
to some sanity and plunged away with such extraordinary speed that I 
outdistanced Cousin Simmons by far. Everyone else was running. Later 
we realized that the redcoats had stopped their charge at the wall. 
Their only hope of survival was to hold to the road and keep marching. 
##

We tumbled to a stop in Deacon Gordon's cow hole, a low-lying 
bit of pasture with a muddy pool of water in its middle. A dozen 
cows mooed sadly and regarded us as if we were insane, as perhaps 
we were at that moment, with the crazy excitement of our first encounter, 
the yelling and shooting still continuing up at the road, and the 
thirst of some of the men, which was so great that they waded into the 
muddy water and scooped up handfuls of it. Isaac Pitt, one of the 
men from Lincoln, had taken a musket ball in his belly; and though 
he had found the strength to run with us, now he collapsed and lay on 
the ground, dying, the Reverend holding his head and wiping his hot brow. 
It may appear that we were cruel and callous, but no one had time 
to spend sympathizing with poor Isaac- except the Reverend. I know 
that I myself felt that it was a mortal shame for a man to be torn 
open by a British musket ball, as Isaac had been, yet I also felt 
relieved and lucky that it had been him and not myself. I was drunk 
with excitement and the smell of gunpowder that came floating down from 
the road, and the fact that I was not afraid now, but only waiting 
to know what to do next.   Meanwhile, I reloaded my gun, as the 
other men were doing. We were less than a quarter of a mile from the 
road, and we could trace its shape from the ribbon of powder smoke and 
dust that hung over it. Wherever you looked, you saw Committeemen 
running across the meadows, some away from the road, some toward it, some 
parallel to it; and about a mile to the west a cluster of at least 
fifty militia were making their way in our direction.   Cousin 
Joshua and some others felt that we should march toward Lexington 
and take up new positions ahead of the slow-moving British column, but 
another group maintained that we should stick to this spot and this 
section of road. I didn't offer any advice, but I certainly did not 
want to go back to where the officer lay with his brains dashed out. 
Someone said that while we were standing here and arguing about it, 
the British would be gone; but Cousin Simmons said he had watched 
them marching west early in the morning, and moving at a much brisker 
pace it had still taken half an hour for their column to pass, what with 
the narrowness of the road and their baggage and ammunition carts.

While this was being discussed, we saw the militia to the west 
of us fanning out and breaking into little clusters of two and three 
men as they approached the road. It was the opinion of some of us that 
these must be part of the Committeemen who had been in the Battle 
of the North Bridge, which entitled them to a sort of veteran status, 
and we felt that if they employed this tactic, it was likely enough 
the best one. Mattathias Dover said:   "It makes sense. If 
we cluster together, the redcoats can make an advantage out of it, 
but there's not a blessed thing they can do with two or three of 
us except chase us, and we can outrun them".   That settled it, 
and we broke into parties of two and three. Cousin Joshua Dover 
decided 
to remain with the Reverend and poor Isaac Pitt until life passed away- 
and he was hurt so badly he did not seem for long in this world. 
I went off with Cousin Simmons, who maintained that if he didn't 
see to me, he didn't know who would.   "Good heavens, Adam", 
he said, "I thought one thing you'd have no trouble learning 
is when to get out of a place".   "I learned that now", 
I said. ##

We ran east for about half a mile before we turned back 
to the road, panting from the effort and soaked with sweat. There 
was a clump of trees that appeared to provide cover right up to the road, 
and the shouting and gunfire never slackened.   Under the trees, 
there was a dead redcoat, a young boy with a pasty white skin and 
a face full of pimples, who had taken a rifle ball directly between the 
eyes. Three men were around him. They had stripped him of his musket 
and equipment, and now they were pulling his boots and jacket off. 
Cousin Simmons grabbed one of them by the shoulder and flung him away.

"God's name, what are you to rob the dead with the fight 
going on"! Cousin Simmons roared.   They tried to outface 
him, but Joseph Simmons was as wide as two average men, and it would 
have taken braver men than these were to outface him.

That summer the gambling houses were closed, despite the threats 
of Pierre Ameaux, a gaming-card manufacturer. Dancing was no longer 
permitted in the streets. The Bordel and other places of prostitution 
were emptied. The slit breeches had to go. Drunkenness was no 
longer tolerated. In defiance, a chinless reprobate, Jake Camaret, 
marched down the aisle in St& Peter's one Sunday morning, followed 
by one of the women from the Bordel, whose dress and walk plainly 
showed the lack of any shame. Plunking themselves down on the front 
bench, they turned to smirk at those around them.   John's first 
impulse was to denounce their blasphemy. But the thought occurred 
that God would want this opportunity used to tell them about Him. Calmly 
he opened the Bible and read of the woman at the well. He finished 
the worship service as if there had been no brazen attempt to dishonor 
God and man.   The next morning, as the clock struck nine, 
he appeared at the Council meeting in the Town Hall and insisted 
that the couple would have to be punished if the Church was to be respected.

"I have told you before, and I tell you again", Monsieur 
Favre said rudely. "Stick to the preaching of the Gospel"!

John stiffened in anger. "That is the answer the ungodly 
will always make when the Church points its fingers at their sins. 
I say to you that the Church will ever decry evil"!   John's 
reply was like a declaration of war. Monsieur Favre sat down 
in his high-backed stall, lips compressed, eyes glinting. Ablard Corne, 
a short man with a rotunda of stomach, rose. Every eye was on him 
as he began to speak.   "What Master Calvin says is true. 
How can we have a good city unless we respect morality"?   Abel 
Poupin, a tall man with sunken cheeks and deep-set eyes, got to 
his feet. "We all know that Jake Camaret and the woman are brazenly 
living together. It would be well to show the populace how we deal 
with adulterers".   Philibert Berthelier, the son of the famous 
patriot, disagreed. "Do not listen to that Frenchman. He is throttling 
the liberty my father gave his life to win"!   John 
was quietly insistent. "There can be no compromise when souls are 
in jeopardy".   A week later the sentence of the Council was 
carried out: Jake Camaret and the woman were marched naked through 
the streets past a mocking populace. Before them stalked the beadle, 
proclaiming as he went, "Thus the Council deals with those who break 
its laws- adulterers, thieves, murderers, and lewd persons. Let 
evildoers contemplate their ways, and let every man beware"! ## 

John's thoughts raced painfully into the past as he read the letter 
he had just received from his sister Mary. Charles had died two 
weeks before, in early November, without being reconciled to the Church. 
The canons, in a body, had tried to force him on his deathbed to 
let them give him the last rites of the Church, but he had died still 
proclaiming salvation by faith. Burial had taken place at night in 
the ground at the public crossroads under the gibbet, so that his enemies 
could not find his body and have it dug up and burned. The Abbot 
of St& Eloi, Claude de Mommor, had been a good friend, but not 
even he thought Charles deserved burial in hallowed ground.   John 
closed his eyes and saw once again the little niche in his mother's 
bedroom, where she had knelt to tell the good Virgin of her needs. 
The blue-draped Virgin was still there, but no one knelt before her 
now. Not even Varnessa; she, too, prayed only to God. For an 
instant John longed for the sound of the bells of Noyon-la-Sainte, 
the touch of his mother's hand, the lilt of Charles's voice in the 
square raftered rooms, his father's bass tones rumbling to the canons, 
and the sight of the beloved bishop. But he had to follow the light. 
Unless God expected a man to believe the Holy Scriptures, why 
had He given them to him? ##

The white-clad trees stood like 
specters in the February night. Snow buried the streets and covered 
the slanting rooftops, as John trudged toward St& Peter's. A carriage 
crunched by, its dim lights filtering through the gloom. The 
sharp wind slapped at him and his feet felt like ice as the snow penetrated 
the holes of his shoes, his only ones, now patched with folded parchment. 
The city had recently given him a small salary, but it was not 
enough to supply even necessities.   As he neared the square, a 
round figure muffled in a long, black cape whisked by. John recognized 
Ablard Corne and called out a greeting. How grateful he was to such 
men! There were several on the Council who tried to live like Christians. 
Despite their efforts, the problems seemed to grow graver 
all the time. Quickening his steps, John entered the vast church and 
climbed the tower steps to the bells. Underneath the big one, in the 
silent moonlight, lay a dead pigeon, and on the smaller bell, the <Clemence>, 
two gray and white birds slept huddled together in the cold 
winter air.   John leaned upon the stone balustrade. He brushed 
back his black hair, shoving it under his pastor's cap to keep it 
from blowing in his eyes. Below the moon-splashed world rolled away 
to insurmountable white peaks; above him the deep blue sky glittered 
with stars. He stood very still, his arms at his sides, staring up 
at the heavens, then down at the blinking lights below.   "How 
long, my Lord? How long? I have never asked for an easy task, 
but I am weary of the strife".   Sleep was difficult these days. 
Indigestion plagued him. Severe headaches were frequent. Loneliness 
tore through him like a physical pain whenever he thought of Peter 
Robert, Nerien, Nicholas Cop, Martin Bucer, and even the compromising 
Louis du Tillet. An occasional traveler from Italy brought 
news of Peter Robert, who was now distributing his Bible among the 
Waldensian peasants. Letters came regularly from Nerien, Nicholas, 
and Martin. He had Anthony and William to confide in and consult. 
But William continued to find a bitter joy in smashing images and 
tearing down symbols sacred to the Old Church. John found it difficult, 
but he held him in check. And Anthony was busy most of the time 
courting this girl and that. His easy good looks made him a favorite 
with the ladies.   Geneva, instead of becoming the City of God, 
as John had dreamed, had in the two years since he had been there, 
continued to be a godless place where all manner of vice flourished. 
Refugees poured in, signing the Confession and rules in order to remain, 
and then disregarding them. Dice rolled, prostitutes plied their 
trade, thieves stole, murderers stabbed, and the ungodly blasphemed. 
Catholics who were truly Christians longed for the simple penance of 
days gone by. Libertines recalled the heroism of the past and demanded: 
"Are we going to allow the Protestant Pope, Master Calvin, 
to curtail our liberty? **h Why, oh why, doesn't he stick to preaching 
the Gospel, instead of meddling in civic affairs, politics, 
economics, and social issues that are no concern of the Church"? 
And John's reply was always the same: "Anything that affects 
souls is the concern of the Church! We will have righteousness"!

Tears burned behind his eyes as he prayed and meditated tonight. 
Unless the confusion cleared, he would not be coming here much 
longer. Monsieur Favre's threat would become a reality, for he continued 
to proclaim loudly that the city must rid itself of "that Frenchman".

The slow tapping of a cane on the stone steps coming 
up to the tower interrupted his reverie. Faint at first, the tapping 
grew until it sounded loud against the wind. Eli Corault! John 
thought. What is he doing here at this hour? He started down the 
steps to meet the near-blind preacher, who had been one of the early Gospelers 
in Paris.   "John? Is that you? I came to warn 
you of a plot"!   John stood above him, his face ashen. What 
now? Slowly, like a man grown old, he took Eli's hand and led 
him below to the tower study, guiding him to a chair beside the little 
hearth where a fire still burned.   "Plot"? John asked 
tiredly.   "Monsieur Favre just paid me a visit. I went to 
your rooms, and Anthony told me you were here. Two Anabaptists, Caroli 
and Benoit, are to challenge you and William to a debate before 
the Council. It is to be a trap. You know the law: if you lose the 
debate after accepting a challenge, you will be banished"!

"What will be the subject"?   "You are to be accused 
of Arianism to confuse the religious who remain loyal".   Anger 
and fear fused in John. Ever since the fourth century a controversy 
had raged over the person of Christ. Those who refused to believe 
that He was the eternal Son of God were termed Arianists. Peter 
Caroli had come to Geneva, saying that he had been a bishop of the 
Church of Rome and had been persecuted in Paris for his Reformed faith. 
He asked to be appointed a preacher. But Michael Sept had unmasked 
him, revealing he had never been a bishop, but was an Anabaptist, 
afraid to state his faith, because he knew John Calvin had written 
a book against their belief that the soul slept after death. So John 
had refused to agree to his appointment as a preacher, and now Caroli 
sought revenge.   John sighed. "If William agrees, we should 
insist on a public debate", he said at length.   "There 
is more to the conspiracy. Bern demands that the Lord's Supper be 
administered here as it used to be, with unleavened bread. Furthermore, 
Bern decrees that we must do as we are ordered by the Council, 
preach only the word of God and stop meddling in politics"!

"It was always the spirit with Christ; matters such as leavened 
or unleavened bread are inconsequential. Geneva must remain a sovereign 
state. We will not yield to the demands of Bern"!   The 
firelight played over Eli's flowing white locks and rugged features. 
"Monsieur Favre indicated that if I would co-operate, after you 
and William are banished, following the debate, I will be given a 
place of influence".   "What was your reply to that"?

"That I would rather be banished with two such Christians than 
be made the Chief Syndic"! ##

The following morning, as 
John entered the Place Molard on his way to visit a sick refugee, 
he had a premonition of danger. Then suddenly a group of men and dogs 
circled him. He wanted to run, but he knew that if he did, he would 
be lost. He stood very still, his heart thumping wildly. On the outskirts 
of the rabble the Camaret brothers and Gaspard Favre shook their 
fists.   "Are you going to comply with the demands of Bern"? 
the chinless Jake called.   "Arianist"! a rowdy with 
a big blob of a nose roared. "Heretic"!   John lifted 
his hand for silence. "Know this: the ministers will not yield to 
the demands of Bern". His voice shook a little.   Somebody 
heaved a stone. For an instant John was stunned.   When he felt 
the side of his head, his fingers came away covered with blood. Before 
he could duck, another stone struck him. And another.   "Let 
him be now"! Pierre Ameaux, the gaming-card manufacturer said, 
his little pig eyes glaring. "We have taught him a lesson".

The crowd moved back and John started dizzily down the hill. Fists 
pummeled him as he staggered forward. Then he slipped and went 
down on his hands and knees in the melting snow. At once a bevy of dogs 
was snapping and snarling around him. One, more horrible than the 
rest, lunged, growling deep in his throat, his hair bristling. With great 
difficulty John clambered to his feet and started to run, sweat 
pouring down his face. 
Standing in the shelter of the tent- a rejected hospital tent 
on which the rain now dripped, no longer drumming- Adam watched his 
own hands touch the objects on the improvised counter of boards laid 
across two beef barrels. There was, of course, no real need to rearrange 
everything. A quarter inch this way or that for the hardbake, or 
the toffee, or the barley sugar, or the sardines, or the bitters, or 
the condensed milk, or the stationery, or the needles- what could it 
mean? Adam watched his own hands make the caressing, anxious movement 
that, when rain falls and nobody comes, and ruin draws close like 
a cat rubbing against the ankles, has been the ritual of stall 
vendors, forever.   He recognized the gesture. He knew its meaning. 
He had seen a dry, old, yellowing hand reach out, with that painful 
solicitude, to touch, to rearrange, to shift aimlessly, some object 
worth a pfennig. Back in Bavaria he had seen that gesture, and at 
that sight his heart had always died within him. On such occasions he 
had not had the courage to look at the face above the hand, whatever 
face it might be.   Now the face was his own. He wondered what 
expression, as he made that gesture, was on his face. He wondered if 
it wore the old anxiety, or the old, taut stoicism. But there was no 
need, he remembered, for his hand to reach out, for his face to show 
concern or stoicism. It was nothing to him if rain fell and nobody came. 
Then why was he assuming the role- the gesture and the suffering? 
What was he expiating? Or was he now taking the role- the gesture 
and the suffering- because it was the only way to affirm his 
history and identity in the torpid, befogged loneliness of this land.

This was Virginia.   He looked out of the tent at the 
company street. The rain dripped on the freezing loblolly of the street. 
Beyond that misty gray of the rain, he saw the stretching hutment, 
low diminutive log cabins, chinked with mud, with doorways a man would 
have to crouch to get through, with roofs of tenting laid over boughs 
or boards from hardtack boxes, or fence rails, with cranky chimneys 
of sticks and dried mud. The chimney of the hut across from him was 
surmounted by a beef barrel with ends knocked out. In this heavy air, 
however, that device did not seem to help. The smoke from that chimney 
rose as sluggishly as smoke from any other, and hung as sadly in the 
drizzle, creeping back down along the sopping canvas of the roof.

Over the door was a board with large, inept lettering: HOME 
SWEET HOME. This was the hut of Simms Purdew, the hero. 
The men were huddled in those lairs. Adam knew the names of some. He 
knew the faces of all, hairy or shaven, old or young, fat or thin, suffering 
or hardened, sad or gay, good or bad. When they stood about 
his tent, chaffing each other, exchanging their obscenities, cursing command 
or weather, he had studied their faces. He had had the need to 
understand what life lurked behind the mask of flesh, behind the oath, 
the banter, the sadness. Once covertly looking at Simms Purdew, the 
only man in the world whom he hated, he had seen the heavy, slack, 
bestubbled jaw open and close to emit the cruel, obscene banter, and had 
seen the pale-blue eyes go watery with whisky and merriment, and suddenly 
he was not seeing the face of that vile creature. He was seeing, 
somehow, the face of a young boy, the boy Simms Purdew must once 
have been, a boy with sorrel hair, and blue eyes dancing with gaiety, 
and the boy mouth grinning trustfully among the freckles.   In that 
moment of vision Adam heard the voice within himself saying: <I 
must not hate him, I must not hate him or I shall die>.   His 
heart suddenly opened to joy.   He thought that if once, only 
once, he could talk with Simms Purdew, something about his own life, 
and all life, would be clear and simple. If Simms Purdew would turn 
to him and say: "Adam, you know when I was a boy, it was a funny 
thing happened. Lemme tell you now"-   If only Simms 
Purdew could do that, whatever the thing he remembered and told. It 
would be a sign for the untellable, and he, Adam, would understand.

Now, Adam, in the gray light of afternoon, stared across at the 
hut opposite his tent, and thought of Simms Purdew lying in there 
in the gloom, snoring on his bunk, with the fumes of whisky choking the 
air. He saw the sign above the door of the hut: HOME SWEET HOME. 
He saw the figure of a man in a poncho coming up the company street, 
with an armful of wood.   It was Pullen James, the campmate 
of Simms Purdew. He carried the wood, carried the water, did the 
cooking, cleaning and mending, and occasionally got a kick in the butt 
for his pains. Adam watched the moisture flow from the poncho. It 
gave the rubberized fabric a dull gleam, like metal. Pullen James humbly 
lowered his head, pushed aside the hardtack-box door of the hut, 
and was gone from sight.   Adam stared at the door and remembered 
that Simms Purdew had been awarded the Medal of Honor for gallantry 
at Antietam.   The street was again empty. The drizzle was 
slacking off now, but the light was grayer. With enormous interest, 
Adam watched his hands as they touched and shifted the objects on the 
board directly before him. Into the emptiness of the street, and his 
spirit, moved a form.   The form was swathed in an army blanket, 
much patched, fastened at the neck with a cord. From under the shapeless 
huddle of blanket the feet moved in the mud. The feet wore army 
shoes, in obvious disrepair. The head was wrapped in a turban and on 
top of the turban rode a great hamper across which a piece of poncho 
had been flung. The gray face stared straight ahead in the drizzle. 
Moisture ran down the cheeks, gathered at the tip of the nose, and at 
the chin. The figure was close enough now for him to see the nose twitching 
to dislodge the drop clinging there. The figure stopped and one 
hand was perilously freed from the hamper to scratch the nose. Then 
the figure moved on.   This was one of the Irish women who had 
built their own huts down near the river. They did washing. Adam recognized 
this one. He recognized her because she was the one who, in 
a winter twilight, on the edge of camp, had once stopped him and reached 
down her hand to touch his fly. "Slice o' mutton, bhoy"? 
she had queried in her soft guttural. "Slice o' mutton"?

Her name was Mollie. They called her Mollie the Mutton, and laughed. 
Looking down the street after her, Adam saw that she had again 
stopped and again removed one hand from the basket. He could not make 
out, but he knew that again she was scratching her nose. Mollie the 
Mutton was scratching her nose.   The words ran crazily in his 
head: <Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain>.

Then the words fell into a pattern: "<Mollie the Mutton 
is scratching her nose, Scratching her nose in the rain. Mollie the 
Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain>".

The pattern would not stop. It came 
again and again. He felt trapped in that pattern, in the repetition.

Suddenly he thought he might weep. "What's the matter with 
me"? he demanded out loud. He looked wildly around, at the now 
empty street, at the mud, at the rain. "Oh, what's the matter with 
me"? he demanded. ##

When he had stored his stock in the great 
oak chest, locked the two big hasps and secured the additional chain, 
tied the fly of the tent, and picked up the cash box, he moved up 
the darkening street. He would consign the cash box into the hands of 
Jed Hawksworth, then stand by while his employer checked the contents 
and the list of items sold. Then he-   Then what? He did 
not know. His mind closed on that prospect, as though fog had descended 
to blot out a valley.   Far off, in the dusk, he heard voices 
singing, muffled but strong. In one of the huts a group of men were 
huddled together, singing. He stopped. He strained to hear. He heard 
the words: "Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me 
hide myself in Thee! Let the water and the blood From Thy riven 
side **h"   He thought: <I am a Jew from 
Bavaria>.   He was standing there, he thought, in Virginia, 
in the thickening dusk, in a costly greatcoat that had belonged to another 
Jew. That other Jew, a young man too, had left that greatcoat 
behind, in a rich house, and marched away. He had crossed the river which 
now, beyond the woods yonder, was sliding darkly under the mist. 
He had plunged into the dark woods beyond. He had died there. 
What had that man, that other young Jew, felt as he stood in the twilight 
and heard other men, far away, singing together?.   Adam 
thought of the hutments, regiment after regiment, row after row, the 
thousands of huts, stretching away into the night. He thought of the 
men, the nameless thousands, huddling in them. He thought of Simms 
Purdew snoring on his bunk while Pullen James crouched by the hearth, 
skirmishing an undershirt for lice, and a wet log sizzled. He thought 
of Simms Purdew, who once had risen at the edge of a cornfield, 
a 
maniacal scream on his lips, and swung a clubbed musket like a flail 
to beat down the swirl of Rebel bayonets about him.   He thought 
of Simms Purdew rising up, fearless in glory. He felt the sweetness 
of pity flood through him, veining his very flesh. Those men, lying 
in the huts, they did not know. They did not know who they were or 
know their own worth. In the pity for them his loneliness was gone.

Then he thought of Aaron Blaustein standing in his rich house 
saying: "God is tired of taking the blame. He is going to let 
History take the blame for a while".   He thought of the old 
man laughing under the glitter of the great chandelier.   He thought: 
<Only in my heart can I make the world hang together>. ## 

Adam rose from the crouch necessary to enter the hut. He saw Mose 
squatting by the hearth, breaking up hardtack into a pan. A pot was 
boiling on the coals. "Done give Ole Buckra all his money"? 
Mose asked softly.   Adam nodded.   "Yeah", Mose murmured, 
"yeah. And look what he done give us".   Adam looked 
at the pot. "What is it"? he asked.   "Chicken", Mose 
said, and theatrically licked his lips. "Gre't big fat chicken, 
yeah". He licked his lips again.   Then: "Yeah. A chicken 
with six tits and a tail lak a corkscrew. And hit squealed for 
slop". Mose giggled. "Fooled you, huh? It is the same ole same, 
tell me hit's name. It is sowbelly with tits on. It is salt po'k. 
It is salt po'k and skippers. That po'k, it was so full of 
skippers it would jump and run and not come when you say, 'Hoo-pig'. 
Had to put my foot on it to hole it down while I cut it up fer 
the lob-scuse".   He dumped the pan of crumbled hardtack into 
the boiling pot of lobscouse. "Good ole lob-scuse", he mumbled, 
and stirred the pot. He stopped stirring and looked over his shoulder. 
"Know what Ole Buckra et tonight"? he demanded. "Know what 
I had to fix fer Ole Him"?   Adam shook his head.

"Chicken", Mose said. 
She was a child too much a part of her environment, too eager to grow 
and learn and experience. Once, they were at Easthampton for the summer 
(again, Fritzie said, a good place, even though they were being 
robbed). 
One soft evening- that marvelous sea-blessed time when the 
sun's departing warmth lingers and a smell of spume and wrack haunts 
everything- Amy had picked herself off the floor and begun to walk. 
Fritzie was on the couch reading; Laura was sitting in an easy chair 
about eight feet away. The infant, in white terry-cloth bathrobe, 
her face intense and purposeful, had essayed a few wobbly steps toward 
her father. "Y'all wanna walk- walk", he said. Then, gently, 
he shoved her behind toward Laura. Amy walked- making it halfway 
across the cottage floor. She lost not a second, picking herself up 
and continuing her pilgrimage to Laura. Then Laura took her gently 
and shoved her off again, toward Fritzie: Amy did not laugh- this 
was work, concentration, achievement. In a few minutes she was making 
the ten-foot hike unaided; soon she was parading around the house, 
flaunting her new skill.   Some liar's logic, a wisp of optimism 
as fragile as the scent of tropical blossoms that came through the 
window (a euphoria perhaps engendered by the pill Fritzie had given 
her), consoled her for a moment. Amy <had> to be safe, <had> to 
come back to them- if only to reap that share of life's experiences 
that were her due, if only to give her parents another chance to do 
better by her. Through the swathings of terror, she jabbed deceit's 
sharp point- Amy would be reborn, a new child, with new parents, 
living under new circumstances. The comfort was short-lived, yet she 
found herself returning to the assurance whenever her imagination forced 
images on her too awful to contemplate without the prop of illusion. 
Gazing at her husband's drugged 
body, his chest rising and falling in mindless 
rhythms, she saw the grandeur of his fictional world, that lush 
garden from which he plucked flowers and herbs. She envied him. She 
admired him.   In the darkness, she saw him stirring. He seemed 
to be muttering, his voice surprisingly clear. "Y'all should 
have 
let me take that money out", Andrus said. "'Nother minute 
I'd have been fine. Y'all 
should have let me do it".   Laura touched 
his hand. "Yes, I know, Fritzie. I should have". 

#TUESDAY# 

The heat intensified on Tuesday. Southern California gasped 
and blinked under an autumn hot spell, drier, more enervating, more 
laden with man's contrived impurities than the worst days of the summer 
past. It could continue this way, hitting 106 and more in the Valley, 
Joe McFeeley knew, into October. He and Irvin Moll were sipping 
coffee at the breakfast bar. Both had been up since 7:00- 
Irv 
on the early-morning watch, McFeeley unable to sleep during his four-hour 
relief. The night before, they had telephoned the Andrus maid, 
Selena Masters, and she had arrived early, bursting her vigorous 
presence into the silent house with an assurance that amused McFeeley 
and confounded Moll. The latter, thanking her for the coffee, had 
winked and muttered, "Sure 'nuff, honey". Selena was the wrong 
woman for these crudities. With a hard eye, she informed Moll: "Don't 
<sure 'nuff> me, officer. I'm <honey> only to my husband, 
understand"? Sergeant Moll understood. The maid was very 
black and very energetic, trim in a yellow pique uniform. Her speech 
was barren of southernisms; she was one of Eliot Sparling's neutralized 
minorities, adopting the rolling ~<R's> and constricted 
vowels of Los Angeles. Not seeing her dark intelligent face, one 
would have gauged the voice as that of a Westwood Village matron, ten 
years out of Iowa. After she had served the detectives coffee and 
toast (they politely declined eggs, uncomfortable about their tenancy), 
she settled down with a morning newspaper and began reading the stock 
market quotations. While she was thus engaged, McFeeley questioned 
her about her whereabouts the previous day, any recollections she 
had of people hanging around, of overcurious delivery boys or repairmen, 
of strange cars cruising the neighborhood. She answered him precisely, 
missing not a beat in her scrutiny of the financial reports. Selena 
Masters, Joe realized, was her own woman. She was the only kind 
of Negro Laura Andrus would want around: independent, unservile, 
probably charging double what ordinary maids did for housework- and 
doubly efficient.   When the parents emerged from the bedroom 
a few minutes later, the maid greeted them quietly. "I'm awful sorry 
about what's happened", Selena said. "Maybe today'll be 
a good-news day". She charged off to the bedrooms.   Moll 
took his coffee 
into the nursery. During the night, a phone company technician 
had deadened the bells and installed red blinkers on the phones. Someone 
would have to remain in the office continually. McFeeley greeted 
the parents, then studied his notebook. He wanted to take the mother 
to headquarters at once and start her on the mug file.   "Sleep 
well"? he asked.   Andrus did not answer him. His face was 
bloated with drugging, redder than normal. The woman had the glassy 
look of an invalid, as if she had not slept at all. "Oh- we managed", 
she said. "I'm a little groggy. Did anything happen during 
the night"?   "Few crank calls", McFeeley said. "A 
couple of tips we're running down- nothing promising. We can 
expect more of the same. Too bad your number is in the directory".

"Didn't occur to me my child would be kidnaped when I had 
it listed", Andrus muttered. He settled on the sofa with his coffee, 
warming his hands on the cup, although the room was heavy with heat.

The three had little to say to each other. The previous night's 
horror- the absolute failure, overcast with the intrusions of 
the press, had left them all with a wan sense of uselessness, of play-acting. 
Sipping their coffee, discussing the weather, the day's shopping, 
Fritzie's commitments at the network (all of which he would 
cancel), they avoided the radio, the morning ~TV news show, even 
the front page of the <Santa Luisa Register>, resting on the kitchen 
bar. KIDNAPER SPURNS RANSOM; AMY STILL MISSING. Once, 
Andrus walked by it, hastily scanned the bold black headline and 
the five-column lead of the article (by Duane Bosch, staff correspondent- 
age not given), and muttered: "We a buncha national celebrities".

McFeeley told the parents he would escort them to 
police headquarters in a half hour. Before that, he wanted to talk to 
the neighbors. He did not want to bring the Andruses to the station 
house too early- Rheinholdt had summoned a press conference, and he 
didn't want them subjected to the reporters again. He could think 
of nothing else to tell them: no assurances, no hopeful hints at great 
discoveries that day. When the detective left, Andrus phoned his 
secretary to cancel his work and to advise the network to get a substitute 
director for his current project. Mrs& Andrus was talking to 
the 
maid, arranging for her to come in every day, instead of the four days 
she now worked.   Outside, only a handful of reporters remained. 
The bulk of the press corps was covering Rheinholdt's conference. 
In contrast to the caravan of the previous night, there were only 
four cars parked across the street. Two men he did not recognize were 
sipping coffee and munching sweet rolls. He did not see Sparling, or 
DeGroot, or Ringel, or any of the feverish crew that had so harassed 
him twelve hours ago. However, the litter remained, augmented by 
several dozen lunchroom suppers. The street cleaner had not yet been 
around.   One of the reporters called to him: "Anything new, 
Lieutenant"? And he ignored him, skirting the parked cars and 
walking up the path to the Skopas house. When McFeeley was halfway 
to the door, the proprietor emerged- a mountainous, dark man, his 
head thick with resiny black hair, his eyes like two of the black olives 
he imported in boatloads. McFeeley identified himself. The master 
of the house, his nourished face unrevealing, consented to postpone 
his departure a few minutes to talk to the detective.   Inside, 
as soon as Mr& Skopas had disclosed- in a hoarse whisper- the 
detective's errand, his family gathered in a huddle, forming a mass 
of dark flesh on and around a brocaded sofa which stood at one side of 
a baroque fireplace. Flanked by marble urns and alabaster lamps, they 
seemed to be posing for a tribal portrait.   It was amazing how 
they had herded together for protection: an enormous matriarch in 
a quilted silk wrapper, rising from the breakfast table; a gross boy 
in his teens, shuffling in from the kitchen with a sandwich in his hands; 
a girl in her twenties, fat and sullen, descending the marble 
staircase; 
then all four gathering on the sofa to face the inquisitor.

They answered him in monosyllables, nods, occasionally muttering 
in Greek to one another, awaiting the word from Papa, who restlessly 
cracked his knuckles, anxious to stuff himself into his white Cadillac 
and burst off to the freeway. No, they hadn't seen anyone around; 
no, they didn't know the Andrus family; yes, they had read 
about the case; yes, they had let some reporters use their phone, 
but they would no longer. They offered no opinions, volunteered nothing, 
betrayed no emotions. Studying them, McFeeley could not help make 
comparison with the Andrus couple. The Skopas people seemed to him 
of that breed of human beings whose insularity frees them from tragedy. 
He imagined they were the kind whose tax returns were never examined 
(if they were, they were never penalized), whose children had no 
unhappy romances, whose names never knew scandal. The equation was 
simple: 
wealth brought them happiness, and their united front to the world 
was their warning that they meant to keep everything they had, let 
no one in on the secrets. By comparison, Fritzie and Laura Andrus 
were quivering fledglings. They possessed no outer fortifications, no 
hard shells of confidence; they had enough difficulty getting from 
day to day, let alone having an awful crime thrust upon them. Skopas 
expressed no curiosity over the case, offered no expression of sympathy, 
made no move to escort McFeeley to the door. All four remained 
impacted on the sofa until he had left.   He had spoken to Mrs& 
Emerson the previous day. There remained a family named Kahler, 
owners of a two-story Tudor-style house on the south side of the Andrus 
home. Their names had not come up in any discussions with Laura, 
and he had no idea what they would be like. McFeeley noted the immaculate 
lawn and gardens: each blade of grass cropped, bright and firm; 
each shrub glazed with good health.   The door was answered 
by a slender man in his sixties- straight-backed, somewhat clerical 
in manner, wearing rimless glasses. When Joe identified himself, he 
nodded, unsmiling, and ushered him into a sedate living room. Mrs& 
Kahler joined them. She had a dried-out quality- a gray, lean woman, 
not unattractive. Both were dressed rather formally. The man wore 
a vest and a tie, the woman had on a dark green dress and three strands 
of pearls.   "Funny thing", Mr& Kahler said, when they 
were seated, "when I heard you ringing, I figured it was that guy 
down the block, Hausman". McFeeley looked puzzled. Kahler continued: 
"I fixed his dog the other day and I guess he's sore, 
so I expected him to come barging in". Mr& Kahler went on to explain 
how Hausman's fox terrier had been "making" in his flower 
beds. The dog refused to be scared off, so Kahler had purchased some 
small firecrackers. He would lay in wait in the garage, and when the 
terrier came scratching around, he'd let fly with a cherry bomb. "Scared 
the hell out of him", Kahler grinned. "I hit him in the 
ass once". Both grinned at the detective. "Finally, all I needed 
was to throw a little piece of red wood that looked like a firecracker 
and that dumb dog would run ki-yi-ing for his life". 
In the dim underwater light they dressed and straightened up the room, 
and then they went across the hall to the kitchen. She was intimidated 
by the stove. He found the pilot light and turned on one of the burners 
for her. The gas flamed up two inches high. They found the teakettle 
and put water on to boil and then searched through the icebox. 
Several sections of a loaf of dark bread; butter; jam; a tiny 
cake of ice. In their search for what turned out to be the right breakfast 
china but the wrong table silver, they opened every cupboard door 
in the kitchen and pantry. While she was settling the teacart, he went 
back across the hall to their bedroom, opened one of the suitcases, 
and took out powdered coffee and sugar. She appeared with the teacart 
and he opened the windows.   "Do you want to call Eugene"?

He didn't, but it was not really a question, and so he 
left the room, walked down the hall to the front of the apartment, hesitated, 
and then knocked lightly on the closed door of the study. A sleepy 
voice answered.   "Le petit dejeuner", Harold said, in 
an accent that did credit to Miss Sloan, his high-school French teacher. 
At the same time, his voice betrayed uncertainty about their 
being here, and conveyed an appeal to whatever is reasonable, peace-loving, 
and dependable in everybody.   Since ordinary breakfast-table 
conversation was impossible, it was at least something that they were 
able to offer Eugene the sugar bowl with their sugar in it, and the 
plate of bread and butter, and that Eugene could return the pitcher 
of hot milk to them handle first. Eugene put a spoonful of powdered 
coffee into his cup and then filled it with hot water. Stirring, he 
said: "I am sorry that my work prevents me from doing anything with 
you today".   They assured him that they did not expect or 
need to be entertained.   Harold put a teaspoonful of powdered coffee 
in 
his cup and filled it with hot water, and then, stirring, he sat back 
in his chair. The chair creaked. Every time he moved or said something, 
the chair creaked again.   Eugene was not entirely silent, 
or openly rude- unless asking Harold to move to another chair and 
placing himself in the fauteuil that creaked so alarmingly was an act 
of rudeness. It went right on creaking under his own considerable weight, 
and all it needed, Harold thought, was for somebody to fling himself 
back in a fit of laughter and that would be the end of it. 
Through the open window they heard sounds below in the street: cartwheels, 
a tired horse's plodding step, voices. Harold indicated the 
photograph on the wall and asked what church the stone sculpture was 
in. Eugene told him and he promptly forgot. They passed the marmalade, 
the bread, the black-market butter, back and forth. Nothing was said 
about hotels or train journeys.   Eugene offered Harold his 
car, to use at any time he cared to, and when this offer was not accepted, 
the armchair creaked. They all three had another cup of coffee. 
Eugene was in his pajamas and dressing gown, and on his large feet he 
wore yellow Turkish slippers that turned up at the toes.   "Ex-cuse 
me", he said in Berlitz English, and got up and left them, 
to bathe and dress.   The first shrill ring of the telephone brought 
Harold out into the hall. He realized that he had no idea where 
the telephone was. At that moment the bathroom door flew open and 
Eugene came out, with his face lathered for shaving, and strode down 
the hall, tying the sash of his dressing gown as he went. The telephone 
was in the study but the ringing came from the hall. Between the telephone 
and the wall plug there was sixty feet of cord, and when the 
conversation came to an end, Eugene carried the instrument with him the 
whole length of the apartment, to his bathroom, where it rang three 
more times while he was shaving and in the tub. Before he left the apartment 
he knocked on their door and asked if there was anything he could 
do for them. Harold shook his head.   "Sabine called a few 
minutes ago", Eugene said. "She wants you and Barbara to have 
dinner with her tomorrow night".   He handed Harold a key to 
the front door, and cautioned him against leaving it unlocked while 
they were out of the apartment.   When enough time had elapsed so 
that there was little likelihood of his returning for something he had 
forgotten, Harold went out into the hall and stood looking into one 
room after another. In the room next to theirs was a huge cradle, of 
mahogany, ornately carved and decorated with gold leaf. It was the 
most important-looking cradle he had ever seen. Then came their bathroom, 
and then a bedroom that, judging by the photographs on the walls, 
must belong to ~Mme Cestre. A young woman who looked like Alix, 
with her two children. Alix and Eugene on their wedding day. Matching 
photographs in oval frames of ~Mme Bonenfant and an elderly man 
who must be Alix's grandfather. ~Mme Vienot, considerably younger 
and very different. The schoolboy. And a gray-haired man whose 
glance- direct, lifelike, and mildly accusing- was contradicted by 
the gilt and black frame. It was the kind of frame that is only put 
around the photograph of a dead person. Professor Cestre, could it 
be?   With the metal shutters closed, the dining room was so dark 
that it seemed still night in there. One of the drawing-room shutters 
was partly open and he made out the shapes of chairs and sofas, which 
seemed to be upholstered in brown or russet velvet. The curtains 
were of the same material, and there were some big oil paintings- portraits 
in the style of Lancret and Boucher.   Though, taken 
individually, the big rooms were, or seemed to be, square, the apartment 
as a whole formed a triangle. The apex, the study where Eugene slept, 
was light and bright and airy and cheerful. The window looked out 
on the Place Redoute- it was the only window of the apartment that 
did. Looking around slowly, he saw a marble fireplace, a desk, a low 
bookcase of mahogany with criss-crossed brass wire instead of glass 
panes in the doors. The daybed Eugene had slept in, made up now with 
its dark-brown velours cover and pillows. The portable record player 
with a pile of classical records beside it. Beethoven's Fifth was 
the one on top. Da-da-da-dum **h Music could not be Eugene's passion. 
Besides, the records were dusty. He tried the doors of the bookcase. 
Locked. The titles he could read easily through the criss-crossed 
wires: works on theology, astral physics, history, biology, political 
science. No poetry. No novels. He moved over to the desk and 
stood looking at the papers on it but not touching anything. The clock 
on the mantel piece was scandalized and ticked so loudly that he glanced 
at it over his shoulder and then quickly left the room. #@# 

THE CONCIERGE CALLED OUT to them as they were passing through 
the foyer. 
Her quarters were on the right as you walked into the building, and 
her small front room was clogged with heavy furniture- a big, round, 
oak dining table and chairs, a buffet, with a row of unclaimed letters 
inserted between the mirror and its frame. The suitcases had come 
while they were out, and had been put in their room, the concierge said.

He waited until they were inside the elevator and then said: 
"Now what do we do"?   "Call the Vouillemont, I 
guess".   "I guess".   Rather than sit around waiting 
for the suitcases to be delivered, they had gone sight-seeing. They 
went to the Flea Market, expecting to find the treasures of Europe, 
and found instead a duplication of that long double row of booths in 
Tours. Cheap clothing and junk of every sort, as far as the eye could 
see. They looked, even so. Looked at everything. Barbara bought 
some cotton aprons, and Harold bought shoestrings. They had lunch 
at a sidewalk cafe overlooking the intersection of two broad, busy, 
unpicturesque streets, and coming home they got lost in the Metro; 
it took them over an hour to get back to the station where they should 
have changed, in order to take the line that went to the Place Redoute. 
It was the end of the afternoon when he took the huge key out of 
his pocket and inserted it into the keyhole. When he opened the door, 
there stood Eugene, on his way out of the apartment. He was wearing 
sneakers and shorts and an open-collared shirt, and in his hand he carried 
a little black bag. He did not explain where he was going, and 
they did not ask. Instead, they went on down the hall to their room.

"Do you think he could be having an affair"? Barbara asked, 
as they heard the front door close.   "Oh no", Harold 
said, shocked.   "Well, this is France, after all". 
"I know, but there must be some other explanation. He's probably 
spending the evening with friends".   "And for that he needs 
a little bag"?   They went shopping in the neighborhood, 
and bought two loaves of bread with the ration coupons they had been given 
in Blois, and some cheese, and a dozen eggs, and a bag of oranges 
from a peddler in the Place Redoute- the first oranges they had 
seen since they landed. They had Vermouth, sitting in front of a cafe. 
When they got home Harold was grateful for the stillness in the apartment, 
and thought how, under different circumstances, they might have 
stayed on here, in these old-fashioned, high-ceilinged rooms that 
reminded him of the Irelands' apartment in the East Eighties. They 
could have been perfectly happy here for ten whole days.   He 
went down the hall to Eugene's bathroom, to turn on the hot-water 
heater, and on the side of the tub he saw a pair of blue wool swimming 
trunks. He felt them. They were damp. He reached out and felt the 
bath towel hanging on the towel rack over the tub. Damp also. He looked 
around the room and then called out: "Come here, quick"?

"What is it"? Barbara asked, standing in the doorway. "I've 
solved the mystery of the little bag. There it is **h and there 
is what was in it. But where do people go swimming in Paris? 
That boat in the river, maybe".   "What boat"?   "There's 
a big boat anchored near the Place de la Concorde, with 
a swimming pool in it- didn't you notice it? But if he has time 
to go swimming, he had time to be with us".   She looked at 
him in surprise.   "I know", he said, reading her mind.

"I don't know what I'm going to do with you".   "It's 
because we are in France", he said, "and know so few people. 
So something like this matters more than it would at home. Also, 
he was so nice when he <was> nice".   "All because I didn't 
feel like dancing".   "I don't think it was that, really".

"Then what was it"?   "I don't know. I 
wish I did. The tweed coat, maybe. The thing about Eugene is that 
he's very proud".   And the thing about hurt feelings, the 
wet bathing suit pointed out, is that the person who has them is not quite 
the innocent party he believes himself to be. For instance- what 
about all those people Harold Rhodes went toward unhesitatingly, 
as if this were the one moment they would ever have together, their one 
chance of knowing each other?   Fortunately, the embarrassing 
questions raised by objects do not need to be answered, or we would 
all have to go sleep in the open fields. And in any case, answers may 
clarify but they do not change anything. 
**h he brought with him a mixture of myrrh and aloes, of about a hundred 
pounds' weight. They took Jesus's body, then, and wrapped it 
in winding-clothes with the spices; that is how the Jews prepare a 
body for burial.   Listed as present at the Descent were Mary, 
Mary's sister, Mary Magdalene, John, Joseph of Arimathea, Nicodemus. 
Search as he might, he could find no place where the Bible 
spoke of a moment when Mary could have been alone with Jesus. Mostly 
the scene was crowded with mourners, such as the dramatic Dell'Arca 
Lamentation in Bologna, where the grief-stricken spectators had 
usurped Mary's last poignant moment.   In his concept there could 
be no one else present.   His first desire was to create a 
mother and son alone in the universe. When might Mary have had that 
moment to hold her child on her lap? Perhaps after the soldiers had 
laid him on the ground, while Joseph of Arimathea was at Pontius Pilate's 
asking for Christ's body, Nicodemus was gathering his mixture 
of myrrh and aloes, and the others had gone home to mourn. Those 
who saw his finished Pieta would take the place of the biblical witnesses. 
They would feel what Mary was undergoing. There would be no 
halos, no angels. These would be two human beings, whom God had chosen.

He felt close to Mary, having spent so long concentrating 
on the beginning of her journey. Now she was intensely alive, anguished; 
her son was dead. Even though he would later be resurrected, 
he was at this moment dead indeed, the expression on his face reflecting 
what he had gone through on the cross. In his sculpture therefore 
it would not be possible for him to project anything of what Jesus felt 
for his mother; only what Mary felt for her son. Jesus' inert 
body would be passive, his eyes closed. Mary would have to carry the 
human communication. This seemed right to him.   It was a relief 
to shift in his mind to technical problems. Since his Christ was 
to be life size, how was Mary to hold him on her lap without the relationship 
seeming ungainly? His Mary would be slender of limb and 
delicate of proportion, yet she must hold this full-grown man as securely 
and convincingly as she would a child.   There was only one 
way to accomplish this: by design, by drawing diagrams and sketches 
in which he probed the remotest corner of his mind for creative ideas 
to carry his concept.   He started by making free sketches to loosen 
up his thinking so that images would appear on paper. Visually, 
these approximated what he was feeling within himself. At the same time 
he started walking the streets, peering at the people passing or shopping 
at the stalls, storing up fresh impressions of what they looked 
like, how they moved. In particular he sought the gentle, sweet-faced 
nuns, with head coverings and veils coming to the middle of their foreheads, 
remembering their expressions until he reached home and set them 
down on paper.   Discovering that draperies could be designed 
to serve structural purposes, he began a study of the anatomy of folds. 
He improvised as he went along, completing a life-size clay figure, 
then bought yards of an inexpensive material from a draper, wet the 
lightweight cloth in a basin and covered it over with clay that Argiento 
brought from the bank of the Tiber, to the consistency of thick 
mud. No fold could be accidental, each turn of the drapery had to serve 
organically, to cover the Madonna's slender legs and feet so that 
they would give substantive support to Christ's body, to intensify 
her inner turmoil. When the cloth dried and stiffened, he saw what 
adjustments had to be made.   "So that's sculpture", commented 
Argiento wryly, when he had sluiced down the floor for a week, "making 
mud pies".   Michelangelo grinned. "See, Argiento, 
if you control the way these folds are bunched, like this, or made to 
flow, you can enrich the body attitudes. They can have as much tactile 
appeal as flesh and bone".   He went into the Jewish quarter, 
wanting to draw Hebraic faces so that he could reach a visual understanding 
of how Christ might have looked. The Jewish section was 
in Trastevere, near the Tiber at the church of San Francesco a Ripa. 
The colony had been small until the Spanish Inquisition of 1492 
drove many Jews into Rome. Here, for the most part, they were well 
treated, as a "reminder of the Old Testament heritage of Christianity"; 
many of their gifted members were prominent in the Vatican 
as physicians, musicians, bankers.   The men did not object to 
his sketching them while they went about their work, but no one could 
be persuaded to come to his studio to pose. He was told to ask for 
Rabbi Melzi at the synagogue on Saturday afternoon. Michelangelo found 
the rabbi in the room of study, a gentle old man with a white beard 
and luminous grey eyes, robed in black gabardine with a skullcap on 
his head. He was reading from the Talmud with a group of men from his 
congregation. When Michelangelo explained why he had come, Rabbi 
Melzi replied gravely:   "The Bible forbids us to bow down 
to or to make graven images. That is why our creative people give their 
time to literature, not to painting or sculpture".   "But, 
Rabbi Melzi, you don't object to others creating works of art"?

"Not at all. Each religion has its own tenets".

"I am carving a Pieta from white Carrara marble. I wish to make 
Jesus an authentic Jew. I cannot accomplish this if you will not 
help me".   The rabbi said thoughtfully, "I would not want 
my people to get in trouble with the Church".   "I am working 
for the Cardinal of San Dionigi. I'm sure he would approve".

"What kind of models would you prefer"?   "Workmen. 
In their mid-thirties. Not bulky laborers, but sinewy men. With 
intelligence. And sensitivity".   Rabbi Melzi smiled at 
him with infinitely old but merry eyes.   "Leave me your address. 
I will send you the best the quarter has to offer". Michelangelo 
hurried to Sangallo's solitary bachelor room with his sketches, 
asked the architect to design a stand which would simulate the 
seated Madonna. Sangallo studied the drawings and improvised a trestle 
couch. Michelangelo bought some scrap lumber. Together he and Argiento 
built the stand, covering it with blankets.   His first 
model arrived at dusk. He hesitated for a moment when Michelangelo asked 
him to disrobe, so Michelangelo gave him a piece of toweling to 
wrap around his loins, led him to the kitchen to take off his clothes. 
He then draped him over the rough stand, explained that he was supposed 
to be recently dead, and was being held on his mother's lap. The 
model quite plainly thought Michelangelo crazy; only the instructions 
from his rabbi kept him from bolting. But at the end of the sitting, 
when Michelangelo showed him the quick, free drawings, with the 
mother roughed in, holding her son, the model grasped what Michelangelo 
was after, and promised to speak to his friends **h. He worked for 
two hours a day with each model sent by the rabbi.   Mary presented 
quite a different problem. Though this sculpture must take place 
thirty-three 
years after her moment of decision, he could not conceive 
of her as a woman in her mid-fifties, old, wrinkled, broken in body and 
face by labor or worry. His image of the Virgin had always been that 
of a young woman, even as had his memory of his mother.   Jacopo 
Galli introduced him into several Roman homes. Here he sketched, 
sitting in their flowing gowns of linen and silk, young girls not yet 
twenty, some about to be married, some married a year or two. Since 
the Santo Spirito hospital had taken only men, he had had no experience 
in the study of female anatomy; but he had sketched the women of 
Tuscany in their fields and homes. He was able to discern the body 
lines of the Roman women under their robes.   He spent concentrated 
weeks putting his two figures together: a Mary who would be young 
and sensitive, yet strong enough to hold her son on her lap; and 
a Jesus who, though lean, was strong even in death **h a look he remembered 
well from his experience in the dead room of Santo Spirito. 
He drew toward the composite design from his meticulously accurate memory, 
without need to consult his sketches.   Soon he was ready 
to go into a three-dimensional figure in clay. Here he would have free 
expression because the material could be moved to distort forms. When 
he wanted to emphasize, or get greater intensity, he added or subtracted 
clay. Next he turned to wax because there was a similarity of 
wax to marble in tactile quality and translucence. He respected each 
of these approach techniques, and kept them in character: his quill 
drawings had a scratchiness, suggesting skin texture; the clay he used 
plastically to suggest soft moving flesh, as in an abdomen, in a reclining 
torso; the wax he smoothed over to give the body surface an 
elastic pull. Yet he never allowed these models to become fixed in his 
mind; they remained rough starting points. When carving he was charged 
with spontaneous energy; too careful or detailed studies in clay 
and wax would have glued him down to a mere enlarging of his model.

The true surge had to be inside the marble itself. Drawing and 
models were his thinking. Carving was action. 

#10.#

The arrangement 
with Argiento was working well, except that sometimes Michelangelo 
could not figure who was master and who apprentice. Argiento had 
been trained so rigorously by the Jesuits that Michelangelo was unable 
to change his habits: up before dawn to scrub the floors, whether 
they were dirty or not; water boiling on the fire for washing laundry 
every day, the pots scoured with river sand after each meal.

"Argiento, this is senseless", he complained, not liking to work 
on the wet floors, particularly in cold weather. "You're too clean. 
Scrub the studio once a week. That's enough".   "No", 
said Argiento stolidly. "Every day. Before dawn. I was taught".

"And God help anyone who tries to unteach you"! 
grumbled Michelangelo; yet he knew that he had nothing to grumble 
about, for Argiento made few demands on him. The boy was becoming acquainted 
with the <contadini> families that brought produce into Rome. 
On Sundays he would walk miles into the <campagna> to visit with 
them, and in particular to see their horses. The one thing he missed 
from his farm in the Po Valley was the animals; frequently he would 
take his leave of Michelangelo by announcing:   "Today 
I go see the horses".   It took a piece of bad luck to show 
Michelangelo that the boy was devoted to him. He was crouched over his 
anvil in the courtyard getting his chisels into trim, when a splinter 
of steel flew into his eye and imbedded itself in his pupil. He stumbled 
into the house, eyes burning like fire. Argiento made him lie 
down on the bed, brought a pan of hot water, dipped some clean white linen 
cloth and applied it to extract the splinter. Though the pain was 
considerable Michelangelo was not too concerned. He assumed he could 
blink the splinter out. But it would not come. Argiento never left 
his side, keeping the water boiled, applying hot compresses throughout 
the night.   By the second day Michelangelo began to worry; 
and by the second night he was in a state of panic: he could see nothing 
out of the afflicted eye. At dawn Argiento went to Jacopo Galli. 
Galli arrived with his family surgeon, Maestro Lippi. The surgeon 
carried a cage of live pigeons. He told Argiento to take a bird 
out of the cage, cut a large vein under its wing, let the blood gush 
into Michelangelo's injured eye.   The surgeon came back at 
dusk, cut the vein of a second pigeon, again washed out the eye.

Beth was very still and her breath came in small jerking gasps. 
The thin legs twitched convulsively once, then Kate felt the little 
body stiffening in her arms and heard one strangled sound. The scant 
flesh grew cool beneath her frantic hands. The child was gone.

When Juanita awoke, Kate was still rocking the dead child, still 
crooning in disbelief, "No, no, oh, <no!>"   They put 
Kate to bed and wired Jonathan and sent for the young Presbyterian 
minister. He sat beside Kate's bed with the others throughout the 
morning, talking, talking of God's will, while Kate lay staring angrily 
at him. When he told her God had called the child to Him, she 
rejected his words rebelliously.   Few of the neighbors came, but 
Mrs& Tussle came, called by tragedy. "It always comes in 
threes", she sighed heavily. "Trouble never comes but in threes".

They held the funeral the next morning from the crossroads 
church and buried the little box in the quiet family plot. Kate moved 
through all the preparations and services in a state of bewilderment. 
She would not accept the death of such a little child. "God called 
her to Him", the minister had said. God would not <do> that, 
Kate thought stubbornly.   Jonathan's letter came, as she knew 
it would, and he had accepted their child's death as another judgment 
from God against both Kate and himself. In blind panic of grief 
she accepted Jonathan's dictum, and believed in her desperation that 
she had been cursed by God. She held Jonathan's letter, his words 
burning like a brand, and knew suddenly that the bonds between them 
were severed. She had nothing left but her duty to his land and his 
son. Joel came and sat mutely with her, sharing her pain and anguish, 
averting his eyes from the ice packs on her bosom.   Juanita and 
Mrs& Tussle kept Kate in bed a week until her milk dried. When 
she returned to life in the big house she felt shriveled of all emotion 
save dedication to duty. She disciplined herself daily to do what 
must be done. She had even steeled herself to keep Juanita upstairs 
in the nurse's room off the empty nursery, although the girl tried 
to insist on moving back to the quarters to spare Kate remembrance of 
the baby's death.   Juanita drooped about the place, wearing 
a haunted, brooding look, which Kate attributed to the baby's death, 
until the day a letter came for her addressed to "Miss Juanita Fitzroy", 
bearing a Grafton postmark. Seeing the slanting hand, Kate 
knew uneasily that it was from the Yankee colonel. The Federal 
forces had taken Parkersburg and Grafton from the Rebels and were moving 
to take all the mountains. Kate tried to contain her curiosity 
and foreboding at what the letter portended, at what involvement existed 
for Juanita.   Uncle Randolph and Joel had replanted the bottom 
lands with difficulty, for more of the slaves, including Annie, 
had sneaked off when the soldiers broke camp. Joel worked like a field 
hand in the afternoons after school. He had been at lessons in the 
schoolhouse since they returned from Harpers Ferry. Kate felt she 
had deserted the boy in her own loss. She loved him and missed his company.

Uncle Randolph had been riding out every evening on some 
secret business of his own. What it was Kate could not fathom. He 
claimed to be visiting the waterfront saloon at the crossroads to play 
cards and drink with his cronies, but Kate had not smelled brandy 
on him since Mrs& Lattimer's funeral. Joel knew what he was about, 
however.   "You're gonna get caught", she heard Joel 
say to Uncle Randolph by the pump one morning.   "Not this old 
fox", chuckled Uncle Randolph. "Everybody knows I'm just 
a harmless, deaf old man who takes to drink. I aim to keep a little whisky 
still back in the ridge for my pleasure".   "Whisky still, 
my foot", said Joel. "You're back there riding with the 
guerrillas, the Moccasin Rangers".   "Hush", said Uncle 
Randolph, smiling, "or I'll give you another black eye". He 
patted the eye Joel had had blackened in a fight over being Rebel at 
the crossroads some days back.   Kate had no idea what they were 
talking of, although she had seen the blue lights and strange fires 
burning and winking on the ridges at night, had heard horsemen on the 
River Road and hill trails through the nights till dawn. Stranger, 
Uncle Randolph began riding home nights with a jug strapped to his saddle, 
drunkenly singing "Old Dan Tucker" at the top of his voice. 
Hearing his voice ring raucously up from the road, Kate would await 
him anxiously and watch perplexed as he walked into the house, cold 
sober. What he was about became clear to her with the circulation of 
another broadside proclamation by General McClellan, threatening 
reprisals against Rebel guerrillas. She was taken up in worry for the 
reckless old man.   Kate drew more and more on her affection for 
Joel through the hot days of summer work. She had taken him out of 
the schoolhouse and closed the school for the summer, after she saw 
Miss Snow crack Joel across the face with a ruler for letting a snake 
loose in the schoolroom. Kate had walked past the school on her morning 
chores and had seen the whole incident, had seen Joel's burning 
humiliation before Miss Snow's cold, bespectacled wrath. He had 
the hardest pains of growing before him now, as he approached twelve. 
These would be his hardest years, she knew, and he missed his father 
desperately.   She tried to find some way to draw him out, to 
help him. Whenever she found time, she went blackberry picking with 
him, and they would come home together, mouths purple, arms and faces 
scratched, tired enough to forget grief for another day. He tended the 
new 
colts Beau had sired. He helped Kate and Juanita enlarge the flower 
garden in the side yard, where they sometimes sat in the still evenings 
watching the last fat bees working against the summer's purple dusk.

No one went much to the crossroads now except Uncle Randolph. 
They stayed in their own world on the bluff, waiting for letters 
and the peddler, bringing 
the news. Jonathan wrote grimly of the destruction 
of Harpers Ferry before they abandoned it; of their first 
engagement at Falling Waters after Old Jack's First Brigade 
had destroyed all the rolling stock of the ~B+O Railroad. The men 
were restive, he wrote, ready to take the battle to the enemy as Jackson 
wished.   The peddler came bawling his wares and told them 
of the convention in Wheeling, Which had formed a new state government 
by declaring the government at Richmond in the east illegal because 
they were traitors. Dangling his gaudy trinkets before them, he told 
of the Rebel losses in the mountains, at Cheat and Rich mountains 
both, and the Federal march on Beverly.   "Cleaned all them 
Rebs out'n the hills, they did! They won't never git over inter 
loyal western Virginia, them traitors! The Federals is making 
everybody take the oath of loyalty around these parts too", he crowed.

After he had gone, Kate asked Uncle Randolph proudly, "Would 
you take their oath"?   And the old man had given a 
sly and wicked laugh and said, "Hell, yes! I think I've taken 
it about fifty times already"! winking at Joel's look of shock.

Her mother wrote Kate of her grief at the death of Kate's 
baby and at Jonathan's decision to go with the South "And, dear 
Kate", she wrote, "poor Dr& Breckenridge's son Robert 
is now organizing a militia company to go South, to his good father's 
sorrow. Maj& Anderson of Fort Sumter is home and recruiting volunteers 
for the U&S& Army. In spite of the fact that the state 
legislature voted us neutral, John Hunt Morgan is openly flying 
the Confederate flag over his woolen factory"!   Rumor of a 
big battle spread like a grassfire up the valley. Accounts were garbled 
at the telegraph office when they sent old George down to Parkersburg 
for the news.   "All dey know down dere is it were at Manassas 
Junction and it were a <big> fight", the old man told them.

In the next few days they had cause to rejoice. It had been 
a big battle, and the Confederate forces had won. Jonathan and Ben 
were not on the lists of the dead or on that of the missing. Kate and 
Mrs& Tussle waited for letters anxiously. Joel went to the crest 
of a hill behind the house and lit an enormous victory bonfire to celebrate. 
When Kate hurried in alarm to tell him to put it out, she 
saw other dots of flames among the western Virginia hills from the few 
scattered fires of the faithful. They all prayed now that the North 
would realize that peace must come, for Virginia had defended her land 
victoriously.   The week after Manassas the sound of horses 
in the yard brought Kate up in shock from an afternoon's rest when 
she saw the Federal soldiers from her upstairs window. They had already 
lost most of their corn, she thought. Were they to be insulted again 
because of the South's great victory? She remembered McClellan's 
last proclamation as she hurried fearfully down the stairs.

At the landing she saw Juanita, her face flushed pink with excitement, 
run down the hall from the kitchen to the front door. Juanita 
stopped just inside the open door, her hand to her mouth. As Kate 
came swiftly down the stairs to the hall she saw Colonel Marsh framed 
in the doorway, his face set in the same vulnerable look Juanita wore. 
Kate greeted him gravely, uneasy with misgivings at his visit.

"What brings you here again, Colonel Marsh"? she asked, 
taking him and Juanita into the parlor where the shutters were closed 
against the afternoon sun.   "I stopped to say goodbye, Mrs& 
Lattimer, and to tell you how sorry I was to hear about your baby. 
I wish our doctor could have saved her".   "It was a terrible 
loss to me", said Kate quietly, feeling the pain twist again 
at the mention, knowing now that Juanita must have written to him at 
Grafton. "Where will you go now that you're leaving Parkersburg"? 
she asked him, seeing Juanita's eyes grow bleak.   "As 
you know, General McClellan has been occupying Beverly. He has 
notified me that he has orders to go to Washington to take over the 
Army of the Potomac. I am to go to Washington to serve with him".

"When are you to leave"? Kate asked, watching them both 
now anxiously. Their eyes betrayed too much of their emotions, she 
thought sadly.   "Tomorrow. Would you permit Juanita to walk 
about the grounds with me for a short spell, Mrs& Lattimer"?

"Stay here in the parlor where it's cool", she said, trying 
to be calm. It would be better for Joel and Uncle Randolph and 
Mrs& Tussle not to see them.   Kate went back and reminded 
the kitchen women of the supper preparations. Then she took iced lemonade 
to Marsh's young aide where he sat in the cool of the big trees 
around the flower garden. When Marsh called to his aide and the pair 
rode off down the River Road where the gentians burned blue, Juanita 
was shaken and trying not to cry. She sought Kate out upstairs, 
her lips trembling.   "He wants me to go with him tomorrow", 
she told Kate.   "What do you want to do"? Kate asked, 
uneasy at the gravity of the girl's dilemma.   "I could go 
with him. He knows me as your niece, which, of course, I am. But I 
am a slave! You <own> me. It's your decision", said Juanita, 
holding her face very still, trying to contain the bitterness of her 
voice as she enunciated her words too distinctly.   "No, the 
decision is yours. I have held your papers of manumission since I 
married Mr& Lattimer".

The red glow from the cove had died out of the sky. The two in 
the bed knew each other as old people know the partners with whom they 
have shared the same bed for many years, and they needed to say no 
more. The things left unsaid they both felt deeply, and with a sigh they 
fell back on the well-stuffed pillows. Anita put out the remaining 
candles with a long snuffer, and in the smell of scented candlewick, 
the comforting awareness of each other's bodies, the retained pattern 
of dancers and guests remembered, their minds grew numb and then empty 
of images. They slept- Mynheer with a marvelously high-pitched 
snoring, the damn seahorse ivory teeth watching him from a bedside table. 
##

In the ballroom below, the dark had given way to moonlight 
coming in through the bank of French windows. It was a delayed moon, 
but now the sky had cleared of scudding black and the stars sugared 
the silver-gray sky. Martha Schuyler, old, slow, careful of foot, came 
down the great staircase, dressed in her best lace-drawn black silk, 
her jeweled shoe buckles held forward.   "Well, I'm here 
at last", she said, addressing the old portraits on the walls. "I 
don't hear the music. I am getting deaf, I must admit it".

She came to the ballroom and stood on the two carpeted steps that 
led down to it. "Where is everyone? I say, where is everyone? 
Peter, you lummox, you've forgot to order the musicians". 
She stood there, a large old woman, smiling at the things she would 
say to him in the morning, this big foolish baby of a son. There were 
times now, like this, when she lost control of the time count and moved 
freely back and forth into three generations. Was it a birthday ball? 
When Peter had reached his majority at eighteen? Or was it 
her own first ball as mistress of this big house, a Van Rensselaer bride 
from way upstate near Albany, from Rensselaerwyck. And this handsome 
booby, staring and sweating, was he her bridegroom?   Martha 
picked up the hem of her gown and with eyes closed she slowly began 
to dance a stately minuet around the ballroom. ##

David Cortlandt 
was tired beyond almost the limits of his flesh. He had ridden 
hard from Boston, and he was not used to horseback. Now, driving the 
horse and sulky borrowed from Mynheer Schuyler, he felt as if every 
bone was topped by burning oil and that every muscle was ready to dissolve 
into jelly and leave his big body helpless and unable to move.

The road leading south along the river was shaded with old trees, 
and in the moonlight the silvery landscape was like a setting for trolls 
and wood gods rather than the Hudson River Valley of his boyhood 
memories. He slapped the reins on the back of the powerful gray horse 
and held on as the sulky's wheels hit a pothole and came out with 
a jolt and went on. He would cross to Manhattan, to Harlem Heights, 
before morning. There a certain farmhouse was a station for the 
Sons of Liberty. He would send on by trusted messenger the dispatches 
with their electrifying news. And he would sleep, sleep, and never 
think of roads and horses' sore haunches, of colonial wars. 
Strange how everything here fitted back into his life, even if he had 
been away so long. Mynheer, Sir Francis, the valley society, the very 
smell of the river on his right purling along to the bay past fish 
weirs and rocks, and ahead the sleepy ribbon of moon-drenched road. A 
mist was walking on the water, white as cotton, but with a blending 
and merging grace.   Ahead there was a stirring of sudden movement 
at a crossroads. David reached for the pair of pistols in the saddlebags 
at his feet. He pulled out one of them and cocked it. A strange 
wood creature came floating up from a patch of berry bushes. It was 
a grotesque hen, five or six feet tall. It had the features of a man 
bewhiskered by clumps of loose feathers. It ran, this apocalyptic beast, 
on two thin legs, and its wings- were they feathered arms?- 
flapped as it ran. Its groin was bloody. Black strips of skin hung 
from it.   The horse shied at the dreadful thing and flared its 
nostrils. David took a firm hand with it. The creature in feathers 
looked around and David saw the mad eyes, glazed with an insane fear. 
The ungainly bird thing ran away, and to David its croaking sounded 
like the crowing of a tormented rooster. Then it was gone. He drove 
on, wary and shaken. The Sons were out tonight. 

#CHAPTER 10#

New 
York lay bleaching in the summer sun, and the morning fish hawk, flying 
in the heated air, saw below him the long triangular wedge of Manhattan 
Island. It was thickly settled by fifteen thousand citizens 
and laid out into pig-infested streets, mostly around the Battery, going 
bravely north to Wall Street, but giving up and becoming fields 
and farms in the region of Harlem Heights. From there it looked across 
at Westchester County and the Hudson River where the manor houses, 
estates, and big farms of the original (non-Indian) landowners 
began.   On the east side of the island of Manhattan the indifferent 
hawk knew the East River that connected New York Bay with Long 
Island Sound. On the western tip of Long Island protruded Brooklyn 
Heights. It commanded a view over Manhattan and the harbor. 
A fringe of housing and gardens bearded the top of the heights, and 
behind it were sandy roads leading past farms and hayfields. Husbandry 
was bounded by snake-rail fences, and there were grazing cattle. On 
the shores north and south, the fishers and mooncursers- smugglers- 
lived along the churning Great South Bay and the narrow barrier 
of sand, Fire Island.   The morning hawk, hungry for any eatable, 
killable, digestible item, kept his eyes on the ring of anchored ships 
that lay off the shores in the bay, sheltered by the Jersey inlets. 
They often threw tidbits overboard. The larger ships were near Paulus 
Hook, already being called, by a few, Jersey City. These were 
the ships of His Majesty's Navy, herding the hulks of the East 
Indies merchants and the yachts and ketches of the loyalists. The 
news of battle on Breed's Hill had already seeped through, and New 
York itself was now left in the hands of the local Provincial Congress. 
The fish hawk, his wings not moving, circled and glided lower. 
The gilt sterns of the men-of-war becoming clearer to him, the sides 
of the wooden sea walls alternately painted yellow and black, the bronze 
cannon at the ports. The captain's gig of H&M&S& <Mercury> 
was being rowed to H&M&S& <Neptune>. ##

On shore 
"the freed slaves to despotism"- the town dwellers- watched 
the ships and waited. The <chevaux de frise>, those sharp stakes 
and barriers around the fort at the Battery, pointed to a conflict between 
the town and sea power rolling in glassy swells as the tide came 
in. Across the bay the Palisades were heavy in green timber; their 
rock paths led down to the Hudson. Below in the open bay facing Manhattan 
was Staten Island, gritty with clam shells and mud flats behind 
which nested farms, cattle barns, and berry thickets. Along Wappinger 
Creek in Dutchess County, past the white church at Fishkill, 
past Verplanck's Point on the east bank of the Hudson, to the white 
salt-crusted roads of the Long Island Rockaways there was a watching 
and an activity of preparing for something explosive to happen. 
Today, tomorrow, six months, even perhaps a year **h   The fish 
hawk flew on and was lost from sight. The British ships rolled at 
anchor, sent out picket boats and waited for orders from London. Waited 
for more ships, more lobster-backed infantry, and asked <what> 
was to be done with a war of rebellion? ##

David Cortlandt, having 
slept away a day and a night, came awake in a plank farmhouse on 
the Harlem River near Spuyten Duyvil. He looked out through windowpanes 
turned a faint violet by sun and weather, looked out at King's 
Bridge toward Westchester. The road seemed animated with a few more 
wagons than usual; a carriage raising up the choking June dust, 
and beyond, in a meadow, a local militia company drilling with muskets, 
Kentuck' rifles, every kind of horse pistol, old sword, or cutlass.

The wraith-like events of the last few days flooded David's 
mind and he rubbed his unshaved chin and felt again the ache in his 
kidneys caused by his saddle odyssey from Boston. Pensive, introspective, 
he ached. He had sent the dispatches downtown to the proper 
people and had slept. Now there was more to do. Orders not written down 
had to be transmitted to the local provincial government. He scratched 
his mosquito-plagued neck.   From the saddlebags, hung on 
a Hitchcock chair, David took out a good English razor, a present from 
John Hunter. He found tepid water in a pitcher and a last bit of 
soap, and he lathered his face and stood stropping the razor on his 
broad leather belt, its buckle held firm by a knob of the bedpost **h. 
He hoped he was free of self-deception.   Here he was, suddenly 
caught up in the delirium of a war, in the spite and calumny of Whigs 
and Tories. There would be great need soon for his skill as surgeon, 
but somehow he had not planned to use his knowledge merely for war. 
David Cortlandt had certain psychic intuitions that this rebellion 
was not wholly what it appeared on the surface. He knew that many were 
using it for their own ends. But it did not matter. He stropped the 
razor slowly; what mattered was that a new concept of Americans was 
being born. That some men did not want it he could understand. The 
moral aridity of merchants made them loyal usually to their ledgers. 
Yet some, like Morris Manderscheid, would bankrupt themselves for 
the new ideas. Unique circumstances would test us all, he decided. Injury 
and ingratitude would occur. No doubt John Hancock would do well 
now; war was a smugglers' heaven. And what of that poor tarred 
and feathered wretch he had seen on the road driving down from Schuyler's? 
Things like that would increase rather than be done away 
with. One had to believe in final events or one was stranded in the abyss 
of nothing. He saw with John Hunter now that the perfectability 
of man was a dream. Life was a short play of tenebrous shadows. David 
began to shave with great sweeping strokes.   Time plays an 
essential part in our mortality, and suddenly for no reason he could imagine 
(or admit) the image of Peg laughing filled his mind- so desirable, 
so lusty, so full of nuances of pleasure and joy. He drove sensual 
patterns off, carefully shaving his long upper lip. It is harder, 
he muttered, to meditate on man (or woman) than on God.   David 
finished shaving, washed his face clean of lather, and combed and 
retied his hair. He was proud that he had never worn a wig. More and 
more of the colonials were wearing their own hair and not using powder. 
He felt cheerful again, refreshed; presentable in his wide-cut brown 
suit, the well-made riding boots.   It is so easy to falsify 
sentiment **h. In the meadow below, militia officers shouted at their 
men and on King's Bridge two boys sat fishing. The future would 
happen; he did not have to hurry it by thinking too much. A man could 
be tossed outside the dimension of time by a stray bullet these days. 
He began to pack the saddlebags. <And all this too shall pass 
away:> it came to him out of some dim corner of memory from a church 
service when he was a boy- yes, in a white church with a thin spur 
steeple in the patriarchal Hudson Valley, where a feeling of plenitude 
was normal in those English-Dutch manors with their well-fed squires. 
Burly leathered men and wrinkled women in drab black rags carried on 
in a primitive way, almost unchanged from feudal times. Peasants puzzled 
Andrei. He wondered how they could go on in poverty, superstition, 
ignorance, with a complete lack of desire to make either their land 
or their lives flourish.   Andrei remembered a Bathyran meeting 
long ago. Tolek Alterman had returned from the colonies in Palestine 
and, before the national leadership, exalted the miracles of drying 
up swamps and irrigating the desert. A fund-raising drive to buy tractors 
and machinery was launched. Andrei remembered that his own reaction 
had been one of indifference.   Had he found the meaning too 
late? It aggravated him. The land of the Lublin Uplands was rich, 
but no one seemed to care. In the unfertile land in Palestine humans 
broke their backs pushing will power to the brink.   He had 
sat beside Alexander Brandel at the rostrum of a congress of Zionists. 
All of them were there in this loosely knit association of diversified 
ideologies, and each berated the other and beat his breast for 
his own approaches. When Alexander Brandel rose to speak, the hall 
became silent.   "I do not care if your beliefs take you along 
a path of religion or a path of labor or a path of activism. We are 
here because all our paths travel a blind course through a thick forest, 
seeking human dignity. Beyond the forest all our paths merge into 
a single great highway which ends in the barren, eroded hills of Judea. 
This is our singular goal. How we travel through the forest is for 
each man's conscience. Where we end our journey is always the same. 
We all seek the same thing through different ways- an end to this 
long night of two thousand years of darkness and unspeakable abuses 
which will continue to plague us until the Star of David flies over 
Zion". This was how Alexander Brandel expressed pure Zionism. 
It had sounded good to Andrei, but he did not believe it. In his 
heart he had no desire to go to Palestine. He loathed the idea of 
drying up swamps or the chills of malaria or of leaving his natural birthright.

Before he went into battle Andrei had told Alex, "I 
only want to be a Pole. Warsaw is my city, not Tel Aviv".

And now Andrei sat on a train on the way to Lublin and wondered 
if he was not being punished for his lack of belief. Warsaw! He 
saw the smug eyes of the Home Army chief, Roman, and all the 
Romans and 
the faces of the peasants who held only hatred for him. They had let 
this black hole of death in Warsaw's heart exist without a cry of 
protest.   Once there had been big glittering rooms where Ulanys 
bowed and kissed the ladies' hands as they flirted from behind their 
fans.   Warsaw! Warsaw!   "Miss Rak. I am a 
Jew".   Day by day, week by week, month by month, the betrayal 
gnawed at Andrei's heart. He ground his teeth together. I hate 
Warsaw, he said to himself. I hate Poland and all the goddamned mothers' 
sons of them. All of Poland is a coffin.   The terrible 
vision of the ghetto streets flooded his mind. What matters now? 
What is beyond this fog? Only Palestine, and I will never live to 
see Palestine because I did not believe.   By late afternoon 
the train inched into the marshaling yards in the railhead at Lublin, 
which was filled with lines of cars poised to pour the tools of war 
to the Russian front.   At a siding, another train which was a 
familiar sight these days. Deportees. Jews. Andrei's skilled eye 
sized them up. They were not Poles. He guessed by their appearance 
that they were Rumanians.   He walked toward the center of the 
city to keep his rendezvous with Styka. Of all the places in Poland, 
Andrei hated Lublin the most. The Bathyrans were all gone. Few 
of the native Jews who had lived in Lublin were still in the ghetto.

From the moment of the occupation Lublin became a focal point. 
He and Ana watched it carefully. Lublin generally was the forerunner 
of what would happen elsewhere. Early in 1939, Odilo Globocnik, 
the Gauleiter of Vienna, established ~SS headquarters for all 
of Poland. The Bathyrans ran a check on Globocnik and had only to 
conclude that he was in a tug of war with Hans Frank and the civilian 
administrators.   Globocnik built the Death's-Head Corps. 
Lublin was the seed of action for the "final solution" of the Jewish 
problem. As the messages from Himmler, Heydrich, and Eichmann 
came in through Alfred Funk, Lublin's fountainhead spouted.

A bevy of interlacing lagers, work camps, concentration camps erupted 
in the area. Sixty thousand Jewish prisoners of war disappeared 
into Lublin's web. Plans went in and out of Lublin, indicating 
German confusion. A tale of a massive reservation in the Uplands to 
hold several million Jews **h A tale of a plan to ship all Jews to 
the island of Madagascar **h Stories of the depravity of the guards 
at Globocnik's camps struck a chord of terror at the mere mention 
of their names. Lipowa 7, Sobibor, Chelmno, Poltawa, Belzec, Krzywy-Rog, 
Budzyn, Krasnik. Ice baths, electric shocks, lashings, wild 
dogs, testicle crushers.   The Death's-Head Corps took in 
Ukrainian and Baltic Auxiliaries, and the <Einsatzkommandos> waded 
knee-deep in blood and turned into drunken, dope-ridden maniacs. 
Lublin was their heart.   In the spring of 1942 Operation Reinhard 
began in Lublin. The ghetto, a miniature of Warsaw's, was emptied 
into the camp in the Majdan-Tartarski suburb called Majdanek. 
As the camp emptied, it was refilled by a draining of the camps and 
towns around Lublin, then by deportees from outside Poland. In and 
in and in they poured through the gates of Majdanek, but they never 
left, and Majdanek was not growing any larger.   What was happening 
in Majdanek? Was Operation Reinhard the same pattern for the 
daily trains now leaving the Umschlagplatz in Warsaw? Was there 
another Majdanek in the Warsaw area, as they suspected?   Andrei 
stopped at Litowski Place and looked around quickly at the boundary 
of civil buildings. His watch told him he was still early. Down 
the boulevard he could see a portion of the ghetto wall. He found an 
empty bench, opened a newspaper, and stretched his legs before him. 
Krakow Boulevard was filled with black Nazi uniforms and the dirty 
brownish ones of their Auxiliaries.   "Captain 
Androfski"!

Andrei glanced up over the top of the paper and looked into the 
mustached, homely face of Sergeant Styka. Styka sat beside him and 
pumped his hand excitedly. "I have been waiting across the street 
at the post office since dawn. I thought you might get in on a morning 
train".   "It's good to see you again, Styka".

Styka studied his captain. He almost broke into tears. To him, Andrei 
Androfski had always been the living symbol of a Polish officer. 
His captain was thin and haggard and his beautiful boots were worn 
and shabby.   "Remember to call me Jan", Andrei said.

Styka nodded and sniffed and blew his nose vociferously. "When 
that woman found me and told me that you needed me I was never so happy 
since before the war".   "I'm lucky that you were still 
living in Lublin".   Styka grumbled about fate. "For a time 
I thought of trying to reach the Free Polish Forces, but one thing 
led to another. I got a girl in trouble and we had to get married. 
Not a bad girl. So we have three children and responsibilities. I 
work at the granary. Nothing like the old days in the army, but I 
get by. Who complains? Many times I tried to reach you, but I never 
knew how. I came to Warsaw twice, but there was that damned ghetto 
wall **h"   "I understand".   Styka blew his nose 
again.   "Were you able to make the arrangements"? Andrei 
asked.   "There is a man named Grabski who is the foreman in 
charge of the bricklayers at Majdanek. I did exactly as instructed. 
I told him you are on orders from the Home Army to get inside Majdanek 
so you can make a report to the government in exile in London".

"His answer"?   "Ten thousand zlotys".

"Can he be trusted"?   "He is aware he will not live 
for twenty-four hours if he betrays you".   "Good man, Styka".

"Captain **h Jan **h must you go inside Majdanek? 
The stories **h Everyone really knows what is happening there".

"Not everyone, Styka".   "What good will it really 
do"?   "I don't know. Perhaps **h perhaps **h there 
is a shred of conscience left in the human race. Perhaps if they know 
the story there will be a massive cry of indignation".   "Do 
you really believe that, Jan"?   "I have to believe it".

Styka shook his head slowly. "I am only a simple soldier. 
I cannot think things out too well. Until I was transferred into 
the Seventh Ulanys I was like every other Pole in my feeling about 
Jews. I hated you when I first came in. But **h my captain might 
have been a Jew, but he wasn't a Jew. What I mean is, he was a 
Pole and the greatest soldier in the Ulanys. Hell, sir. The men of 
our company had a dozen fights defending your name. You never knew about 
it, but by God, we taught them respect for Captain Androfski".

Andrei smiled.   "Since the war I have seen the way 
the Germans have behaved and I think, Holy Mother, we have behaved 
like this for hundreds of years. Why"?   "How can you 
tell an insane man to reason or a blind man to see"?   "But 
we are neither blind nor insane. The men of your company would not 
allow your name dishonored. Why do we let the Germans do this"?

"I have sat many hours with this, Styka. All I ever wanted 
was to be a free man in my own country. I've lost faith, Styka. 
I used to love this country and believe that someday we'd win our 
battle for equality. But now I think I hate it very much". 
"And do you really think that the world outside Poland will care 
any more than we do"?   The question frightened Andrei.

"Please don't go inside Majdanek".   "I'm still 
a soldier in a very small way, Styka".   It was an answer that 
Styka understood.   Grabski's shanty was beyond the bridge 
over the River Bystrzyca near the rail center. Grabski sat in a sweat-saturated 
undershirt, cursing the excessive heat which clamped an uneasy 
stillness before sundown. He was a square brick of a man with a 
moon-round face and sunken Polish features. Flies swarmed around the 
bowl of lentils in which he mopped thick black bread. Half of it dripped 
down his chin. He washed it down with beer and produced a deep-seated 
belch.   "Well"? Andrei demanded.   Grabski 
looked at the pair of them. He grunted a sort of "yes" answer. "My 
cousin works at the Labor Bureau. He can make you work papers. 
It will take a few days. I will get you inside the guard camp as a 
member of my crew. I don't know if I can get you into the inner camp. 
Maybe yes, maybe no, but you can observe everything from the roof 
of a barrack we are building".   Grabski slurped his way to the 
bottom of the soup bowl. "Can't understand why the hell anyone 
wants to go inside that son-of-a-bitch place".   "Orders from 
the Home Army".   "Why? Nothing there but Jews".

Andrei shrugged. "We get strange orders".   "Well- 
what about the money"?   Andrei peeled off five one-thousand-zloty 
notes. Grabski had never seen so much money. His broad flat 
fingers, petrified into massive sausages by years of bricklaying, snatched 
the bills clumsily. "This ain't enough".   "You 
get the rest when I'm safely out of Majdanek".   "I ain't 
taking no goddamned chances for no Jew business".   Andrei 
and Styka were silent.

She was getting real dramatic. I'd have been more impressed 
if I hadn't remembered that she'd played Hedda Gabler in her 
highschool dramatics course. I didn't want her back on that broken 
record.   "Nothing's free in the whole goddam world", was 
all I could think of to say. When I'd delivered myself of that 
gem there was nothing to do but order up another drink.   "I 
am", she said.   I'd forgotten all about Thelma and the Kentucky 
Derby and how it was Thelma's fifty dollars I was spending. 
It was just me and Eileen getting drunk together like we used to in 
the old days, and me staring at her across the table crazy to get my 
hands on her partly because I wanted to wring her neck because she was 
so ornery but mostly because she was so wonderful to touch. Drunk 
or sober she was the most attractive woman in the world for me. I was 
crazy about her all over again. It was the call of the wild all right.

That evening turned out to be hell like all the others. We 
moved down Broadway from ginmill to ginmill. It was the same old routine. 
Eileen got to dancing, just a little tiny dancing step to a hummed 
tune that you could hardly notice, and trying to pick up strange 
men, but each time I was ready to say to hell with it and walk out she'd 
pull herself together and talk so understandingly in that sweet 
husky voice about the good times and the happiness we'd had together 
and there I was back on the hook.   I did have the decency to 
call up Thelma and tell her I'd met old friends and would be home 
late.   "I could scratch her eyes out", Eileen cried and stamped 
her foot when I came back from the phone booth. "You know I 
don't like my men to have other women. I hate it. I hate it".

She got so drunk I had to take her home. It was a walk up on 
Hudson Street. She just about made me carry her upstairs and then 
she clung to me and wouldn't let me go.   There was a man's 
jacket on the chair and a straw hat on the table. The place smelt of 
some kind of hair lotion these pimplike characters use. "What about 
Ballestre"? I had to shake her to make her listen. "Precious. 
What about him"?   Suddenly she was very mysterious and dramatic. 
"Precious and I allow each other absolute freedom. We are 
above being jealous. He's used to me bringing home strange men. I'll 
just tell him you're my husband. He can't object to that".

"Well I object. If he pokes his nose in here I'll slug 
him".   "That really would be funny".   She began 
to laugh. She was still laughing when I grabbed her and started rolling 
her on the bed. After all I'm made of flesh and blood. I'm 
not a plaster saint.   Waking up was horrible. Never in my life 
have I felt so remorseful about anything I've done as I did about 
spending that night with my own wife.   We both had hangovers. 
Eileen declared she couldn't lift her head from the pillow. She 
lay under the covers making jabbing motions with her forefinger telling 
me where to look for the coffeepot. I was stumbling in my undershirt 
trying to find my way around her damn kitchenette when I smelt that 
sickish sweet hairtonic smell. There was somebody else in the apartment.

I stiffened. Honest I could feel the hair stand up on the 
back of my neck like a dog's that is going to get into a fight. I 
turned around with the percolator in my hand. My eyes were so bleary 
I could barely see him but there he was, a little smooth olivefaced 
guy in a new spring overcoat and a taffycolored fedora. Brown eyes, 
eyebrow mustache. Oval face without an expression in the world.

We didn't have time to speak before Eileen's voice was screeching 
at us from the bed. "Joseph Maria Ballestre meet Francis Xavier 
Bowman. Exboyfriend meet exhusband". She gave the nastiest laugh 
I ever heard. "And don't either of you forget that I'm not 
any man's property. If you want to fight, go down on the sidewalk". 
She was enjoying the situation. Imagine that.   Eileen 
was a psychologist all right. Instead of wanting to sock the poor bastard 
I found myself having a fellowfeeling for him. Maybe he felt the 
same way. I never felt such a lowdown hound in my life. First thing 
I knew he was in the kitchenette cooking up the breakfast and I was 
handing Eileen her coffeecup and she was lying there handsome as a 
queen among her courtiers.   I couldn't face Thelma after that 
night. I didn't even have the nerve to call her on the telephone. 
I wrote her that I'd met up with Eileen and that old bonds had proved 
too strong and asked her to send my clothes down by express. Of 
course I had to give her Eileen's address, but she never came near 
us. All she did was write me a pleasant little note about how it was 
beautiful while it lasted but that now life had parted our ways and 
it was goodbye forever. She never said a word about the fifty dollars. 
She added a postscript begging me to be careful about drinking. I 
must know that that was my greatest weakness underlined three times.

Afterwards I learned that Eileen had called Thelma on the telephone 
and made a big scene about Thelma trying to take her husband 
away. That finished me with Thelma. Trust Eileen to squeeze all the 
drama out of a situation.   And there I was shacked up with Eileen 
in that filthy fourth floor attic on Hudson Street. I use the 
phrase advisedly because there was something positively indecent about 
our relationship. I felt it and it ate on me all the time, but I 
didn't know how right I was till later.   What I did know was 
that Precious was always around. He slept in the hall bedroom at the 
head of the stairs. "Who do you think pays the rent? You wouldn't 
have me throw the poor boy out on the street", Eileen said when 
I needled her about it. I said sure that was what I wanted her 
to do but she paid no attention. Eileen had a wonderful way of not listening 
to things she didn't want to hear. Still I didn't think 
she was twotiming me with Precious right then. To be on the safe side 
I never let Eileen get out of my sight day or night.   Precious 
had me worried. I couldn't make out what his racket was. I'd 
thought him a pimp or procurer but he didn't seem to be. He was smooth 
and civil spoken but it seemed to me there was something tough under 
his selfeffacing manner. Still he let Eileen treat him like a valet. 
Whenever the place was cleaned or a meal served it was Precious 
who did the work.   I never could find out what his business was. 
He always seemed to have money in his pocket. The phone had been 
disconnected but telegrams came for him and notes by special messenger. 
Now and then he would disappear for several days. "Connections" 
was all he would say with that smooth hurt smile when I put leading 
questions. "Oh he's just an international spy", Eileen would 
shout with her screechy laugh.   Poor devil he can't have been 
too happy either. He got no relief from drink because, though sometimes 
Precious would buy himself a drink if he went out with us in the 
evening, he'd leave it on the table untouched.   When I was in 
liquor I rode him pretty hard I guess. Occasionally if I pushed 
him too far he'd give me a look out of narrowed eyes and the hard cruel 
bony skull would show through that smooth face of his. "Some day", 
I told Eileen, "that guy will kill us both". She just wouldn't 
listen.   Getting drunk every night was the only way I 
could handle the situation. Eileen seemed to feel the same way. We still 
had that much in common. The trouble was drinking cost money. The 
way Eileen and I were hitting it up, we needed ten or fifteen dollars 
an evening. Eileen must have wheedled a little out of Precious. 
I raised some kale by hocking the good clothes I had left over from 
my respectable uptown life, but when that was gone I didn't have a 
cent. I don't know what we would have done if Pat O'Dwyer hadn't 
come to town.   Pat O'Dwyer looked like a heavier Jim. 
He had the same bullet head of curly reddish hair but he didn't have 
Jim's pokerfaced humor or his brains or his charm. He was a big 
thick beefy violent man. Now Pat may have been a lecher and a plugugly, 
but he was a good churchgoing Catholic and he loved his little 
sister. Those O'Dwyers had that Irish clannishness that made them 
stick 
together in spite of politics and everything.   Pat took Eileen 
and me out to dinner at a swell steak house and told us with tears 
in his eyes how happy he was we had come together again. "Whom God 
hath joined" etcetera. The O'Dwyers were real religious people 
except for Kate. Now it would be up to me to keep the little girl 
out of mischief. Pat had been worried as hell ever since she'd lost 
her job on that fashion magazine. It had gone big with the Hollywood 
girls when he told them his sister was an editor of <Art and Apparel>. 
How about me trying to help her get her job back?   All 
evening Eileen had been as demure as a little girl getting ready 
for her first communion. It just about blew us both out of the water 
when Eileen suddenly came out with what she came out with. "But brother 
I can't take a job right now", she said with her eyes on her 
ice cream, "I'm going to have a baby, Francis Xavier's baby, 
my own husband's baby".   My first thought was how had it 
happened so soon, but I counted back on my fingers and sure enough we'd 
been living together six weeks. Pat meanwhile was bubbling over with 
sentiment. Greatest thing that ever happened. Now Eileen really 
would have to settle down to love honor and obey, and she'd have to 
quit drinking. He'd come East for the christening, by God he would. 
When we separated that evening Pat pushed a hundred dollar bill 
into Eileen's hand to help towards a layette.   Before he left 
town Pat saw to it that I was fixed up with a job. Pat had contacts 
all over the labor movement. A friend of Pat's named Frank Sposato 
had just muscled into the Portwatchers' Union.   The portwatchers 
were retired longshoremen and small time seafarers off towboats 
and barges who acted as watchmen on the wharves. Most of them were 
elderly men. It was responsible and sometimes dangerous work because 
the thieving is awful in the port of New York. They weren't as 
well paid as they should have been. One reason the portwatchers let 
Sposato take them over was to get the protection of his musclemen.

Sposato needed a front, some labor stiff with a clean record to 
act as business agent of the Redhook local. There I was a retired 
wobbly and structural iron worker who'd never gouged a cent off a fellow 
worker in my thirty years in the movement. For once radicalism was 
a recommendation.   Sposato couldn't wait to get me hired. 
With my gray hair and my weatherbeaten countenance I certainly looked 
the honest working stiff. The things a man will do for a woman. 
There was one fact which Rector could not overlook, one truth which 
he could not deny. As long as there were two human beings working together 
on the same project, there would be competition and you could no 
more escape it than you could expect to escape the grave. No matter 
how devoted a man was, no matter how fully he gave his life to the Lord, 
he could never extinguish that one spark of pride that gave him definition 
as an individual. All of the jobs in the mission might be equal 
in the eyes of the Lord, but they were certainly not equal in the 
eyes of the Lord's servants. It was only natural that Fletcher would 
strive for a position in which he could make the decisions.

Even Rector himself was prey to this spirit of competition and he 
knew it, not for a more exalted office in the hierarchy of the church- 
his ambitions for the bishopry had died very early in his career- 
but for the one clear victory he had talked about to the colonel. He 
was not sure how much of this desire was due to his devotion to the church 
and how much was his own ego, demanding to be satisfied, for the two 
were intertwined and could not be separated. He wanted desperately 
to see Kayabashi defeated, the Communists in the village rooted out, 
the mission standing triumphant, for in the triumph of the Lord he 
himself would be triumphant, too. But perhaps this was a part of the 
eternal plan, that man's ambition when linked with God would be a driving, 
indefatigable force for good in the world.   He sighed. 
How foolish it was to try to fathom the truth in an area where only faith 
would suffice. He would have to work without questioning the motives 
which made him work and content himself with the thought that the 
eventual victory, however it was brought about, would be sweet indeed.

His first move was to send Hino to the village to spend a few days. 
His arm had been giving him some trouble and Rector was not enough 
of a medical expert to determine whether it had healed improperly or 
whether Hino was simply rebelling against the tedious work in the print 
shop, using the stiffness in his arm as an excuse. In any event Rector 
sent him to the local hospital to have it checked, telling him to 
keep his ears open while he was in the village to see if he could find 
out what Kayabashi was planning.   Hino was elated at the prospect. 
He was allowed to spend his nights at an inn near the hospital 
and he was given some extra money to go to the <pachinko> parlor- 
an excellent place to make contact with the enemy. He left with all 
the joyous spirit of a child going on a holiday, nodding attentively 
as Rector gave him his final instructions. He was to get involved in 
no 
arguments; he was to try to make no converts; he was simply to listen 
and report back what he heard.   It was a ridiculous situation 
and Rector knew it, for Hino, frankly partisan, openly gregarious, 
would make a poor espionage agent. If he wanted to know anything, he 
would end up asking about it point-blank, but in this guileless manner 
he would probably receive more truthful answers than if he tried to 
get them by indirection. In all of his experience in the mission field 
Rector had never seen a convert quite like Hino. From the moment 
that Hino had first walked into the mission to ask for a job, any job- 
his qualifications neatly written on a piece of paper in a precise 
hand- he had been ready to become a Christian. He had already been 
studying the Bible; he knew the fundamentals, and after studying 
with Fletcher for a time he approached Rector, announced that he wanted 
to be baptized and that was that.   Rector had never been able 
to find out much about Hino's past. Hino talked very little about 
himself except for the infrequent times when he used a personal illustration 
in connection with another subject. Putting the pieces of 
this mosaic together, Rector had the vague outlines of a biography. Hino 
was the fourth son of an elderly farmer who lived on the coast, in 
Chiba, and divided his life between the land and the sea, supplementing 
the marginal livelihood on his small rented farm with seasonal employment 
on a fishing boat. Without exception Hino's brothers turned 
to either one or both of their father's occupations, but Hino showed 
a talent for neither and instead spent most of his time on the beach 
where he repaired nets and proved immensely popular as a storyteller. 
He had gone into the Japanese navy, had been trained as an officer, 
had participated in one or two battles- he never went into detail 
regarding his military experience- and at the age of twenty-five, 
quite as a bolt out of the blue, he had walked into the mission as if 
he belonged here and had become a Christian. Rector was often curious; 
often tempted to ask questions but he never did. If and when Hino 
decided to tell him about his experiences, he would do so unasked.

Rector had no doubt that Hino would come back from the village 
bursting with information, ready to impart it with his customary gusto, 
liberally embellished with his active imagnation. When the telephone 
rang on the day after Hino went down to the village, Rector had 
a hunch it would be Hino with some morsel of information too important 
to wait until his return, for there were few telephones in the village 
and the phone in Rector's office rarely rang unless it was important. 
He was surprised to find Kayabashi's secretary on the other 
end of the line. He was even more startled when he heard what Kayabashi 
wanted. The <oyabun> was entertaining a group of dignitaries, the 
secretary said, businessmen from Tokyo for the most part, and Kayabashi 
wished to show them the mission. They had never seen one before 
and had expressed a curiosity about it.   "Oh"? Rector 
said. "I guess it will be all right. When would the <oyabun> like 
to bring his guests up here"?   "This afternoon", the 
secretary said. "At three o'clock if it will be of convenience to 
you at that time".   "All right", Rector said. "I will 
be expecting them".   He was about to hang up the phone, but 
a note of hesitancy in the secretary's voice left the conversation 
open. He had something more to say. "I beg to inquire if the back 
is now safe for travelers", he said.   Rector laughed despite 
himself. "Unless the <oyabun> has been working on it", he said, 
then checked himself and added: "You can tell Kayabashi-<san> 
that the back road is in very good condition and will be quite safe for 
his party to use".   "<Arigato gosaimasu>". The secretary 
sighed with relief and then the telephone clicked in Rector's 
hand.   Rector had no idea why Kayabashi wanted to visit the mission. 
For the <oyabun> to make such a trip was either a sign of great 
weakness or an indication of equally great confidence, and from all 
the available information it was probably the latter. Kayabashi must 
feel fairly certain of his victory in order to make a visit like this, 
a trip which could be so easily misinterpreted by the people in the 
village. 
At the same time, it was unlikely that any businessmen would spend 
a day in a Christian mission out of mere curiosity. No, Kayabashi 
was bringing his associates here for a specific purpose and Rector 
would not be able to fathom it until they arrived.   When he had 
given the call a few moments thought, he went into the kitchen to ask 
Mrs& Yamata to prepare tea and <sushi> for the visitors, using 
the formal English china and the silver tea service which had been 
donated to the mission, then he went outside to inspect the grounds. Fujimoto 
had a pile of cuttings near one side of the lawn. Rector asked 
him to move it for the time being; he wanted the mission compound 
to be effortlessly spotless. A good initial impression would be important 
now. He went into the print shop, where Fletcher had just finished 
cleaning the press.   "How many pamphlets do we have in stock"? 
Rector said.   "I should say about a hundred thousand", 
Fletcher said. "Why"?   "I would like to enact 
a little tableau this afternoon", Rector said, He explained about 
the visit and the effect he wished to create, the picture of a very busy 
mission. He did not wish to deceive Kayabashi exactly, just to display 
the mission activities in a graphic and impressive manner. Fletcher 
nodded as he listened to the instructions and said he would arrange 
the things Rector requested.   Rector's next stop was at 
the schoolroom, where Mavis was monitoring a test. He beckoned to her 
from the door and she slipped quietly outside. He told her of the visitors 
and then of his plans. "How many children do you have present 
today"? he said.   She looked back toward the schoolroom. 
"Fifteen", she said. "No, only fourteen. The little Ito girl 
had to go home. She has a pretty bad cold".   "I would 
like them to appear very busy today, not busy exactly, but joyous, exuberant, 
full of life. I want to create the impression of a compound 
full of children. Do you think you can manage it"?   Mavis 
smiled. "I'll try".   As Rector was walking back toward 
the residential hall, Johnson came out of the basement and bounded up 
to him. The altercation in the coffee house had done little to dampen 
his spirits, but he was still a little wary around Rector for they 
had not yet discussed the incident. "I think I've fixed the pump 
so we won't have to worry about it for a long time", he said. "I've 
adjusted the gauge so that the pump cuts out before the water 
gets too low".   "Fine", Rector said. He looked out over 
the expanse of the compound. It was going to take a lot of activity 
to fill it. "Have you ever operated a transit"? he said.

"No, sir", Johnson said.   "You are about to become a 
first-class surveyor", Rector said. "When Konishi gets back with 
the jeep, I want you to round up two or three Japanese boys. Konishi 
can help you. You'll find an old transit in the basement. The 
glass is out of it, but that won't matter. It looks pretty efficient 
and that's the important thing". He went on to explain what he 
had in mind. Johnson nodded. He said he could do it.   Rector 
was warming to his over-all strategy by the time he got back to the residential 
hall. It was rather a childish game, all in all, but everybody 
seemed to be getting into the spirit of the thing and he could not 
remember when he had enjoyed planning anything quite so much. He was 
not sure what effect it would have, but that was really beside the point 
when you got right down to it. He was not going to lose the mission 
by default, and whatever reason Kayabashi had for bringing his little 
sight-seeing group to the mission, he was going to be in for a surprise.

He found Elizabeth in the parlor and asked her to make 
sure everything was in order in the residential hall, and then to take 
charge of the office while the party was here. When everything had been 
done, Rector went back to his desk to occupy himself with his monthly 
report until three o'clock.   At two thirty he sent Fujimoto 
to the top of the wall at the northeast corner of the mission to 
keep an eye on the ridge road and give a signal when he first glimpsed 
the approach of Kayabashi's party. Then Rector, attired in his best 
blue serge suit, sat in a chair out on the lawn, in the shade of a 
tree, smoking a cigarette and waiting. The air was cooler here, and the 
lacy pattern of the trees threw a dappled shadow on the grass, an effect 
which he found pleasant.

She concluded by asking him to name another hour should this one 
be inconvenient.   The fish took the bait. He replied that he 
could not imagine what importance there might be in thus meeting with 
a stranger, but- joy of joys, he would be at home at the hour mentioned.

But when she called he had thought better of the matter 
and decided not to involve himself in a new entanglement. She was told 
by the manservant who opened the door that his lordship was engaged 
on work from which he had left strict orders he was not to be disturbed. 
Claire was bitterly disappointed but determined not to let the rebuff 
daunt her purpose. She wrote again and now, abandoning for the moment 
the theme of love, she asked for help in the matter of her career. 
She could act and she could write. His lordship was concerned in the 
management of Drury Lane but, if there were no opportunities there, 
would he read and criticize her novel?   At last he consented 
to meet her, and following that brief interview Claire wrote him a 
yet more remarkable proposal:   Have you any objection to the 
following plan? On Thursday evening we may go out of town together 
by some stage or mail about the distance of ten or twelve miles. There 
we shall be free and unknown; we can return the following morning 
**h   She concluded by asking for a brief interview- "to settle 
with you <where>"- and she threw in a tribute to his "gentle 
manners" and "the wild originality of your countenance".

She opened his reply with trembling fingers **h he agreed! And 
he would see her that evening. Victory at last!   At their 
meeting he told her not to bother about "where"- he would attend 
to that. There was one of the new forte-pianos in the room and, as 
Claire 
rose to go, he asked her to sing him one song before she left. 
She sang him Scott's charming ballad "Rosabelle", which was the 
vogue of the moment. She had never sung better.   "Your voice 
is delightful", he approved with a warm smile. "Tomorrow will 
be a new experience- I have never before made love to a nightingale 
**h. There have been cooing doves, chattering magpies, thieving jackdaws, 
a proud peacock, a silly goose, and a harpy eagle- whom I was 
silly enough to mate with and who is now busy tearing at my vitals".

And so they went, he choosing of all places an inn near Medmenham 
Abbey, scene a generation ago of the obscene orgies of the Hellfire 
Club. He regaled Claire with an account of the mock mass performed 
by the cassocked bloods, which he had had at firsthand from old 
Bud Dodington, one of the leaders of the so-called "Order". Each 
wore the monkish scourge at his waist but this, it seems, was not 
employed for self-flagellation **h. Naked girls danced in the chancel 
of the Abbey, the youngest and seemingly the most innocent being chosen 
to read a sermon filled with veiled depravities.   The jaded 
amorist conjured up pictures of the blasphemous rites with relish. Alas, 
all that belonged to the age of "Devil Dashwood" and "Wicked 
Wilkes", abbot and beadsman of the Order! The casual seduction 
of a seventeen-year-old bluestocking seemed tame by comparison.

They passed close by the turn to Bishopsgate. A scant half mile 
away Shelley and Mary were doubtless sitting on their diminutive terrace, 
the air about them scented with stock, and listening to the nightingale 
who had nested in the big lime tree at the foot of the garden. Charming 
and peaceful- but what were charm and peace compared to high adventure? 
Alone with the fabulous Byron! How many women had longed 
for the privilege that was hers.   How was she to behave, Claire 
wondered. To be passive, to be girlishly shy was palpably absurd. 
She was the pursuer as clearly as was Venus in Shakespeare's poem. 
And while her Adonis did not suffer from inexperience, satiety might 
well be an equal handicap. No, she would not pretend modesty, but 
neither must she be crudely bold. Mystery- that was the thing. In 
the bedroom she would insist on darkness. With his club foot he might 
well be grateful.   At the inn, which was situated close to a 
broad weir, Byron was greeted by the landlord with obsequious deference 
and addressed as "milord". The place was evidently a familiar 
haunt and Claire wondered what other illicit loves had been celebrated 
in the comfortable rooms to which they were shown.   The fire 
in the sitting room was lighted.   "What about the bedroom"? 
Byron inquired. "Seems to me last time I was here the grate bellowed 
out smoke as it might have been preparing us for hell".

"We found some owls had built a nest in the chimney, milord, but 
I promise you you'll never have trouble of that sort again".

So, not only had he been here before, but it seemed he might well 
come again. Claire felt suddenly small and cheap, heroine of a trivial 
episode in the voluminous history of Don Juan.   A cold supper 
was ordered and a bottle of port. When Napoleon's ship had borne 
him to Elba, French wines had started to cross the Channel, the first 
shipments in a dozen war-ridden years, but the supplies had not yet 
reached rural hostelries where the sweet wines of the Spanish peninsula 
still ruled.   As they waited for supper they sat by the 
fire, glasses in hand, while Byron philosophized as much for his own 
entertainment as hers.   "Sex is overpriced", he said. "The 
great Greek tragedies are concerned with man against Fate, not 
man against man for the prize of a woman's body. So don't see yourself 
as a heroine or fancy this little adventure is an event of major 
importance".   "The gods seemed to think sex pretty important", 
she rebutted. "Mars and Venus, Bacchus and Ariadne, Jupiter 
and Io, Byron and the nymph of the owl's nest. That would be 
Minerva, I suppose. Wasn't the owl her symbol"?   Byron 
laughed. "So you know something of the classics, do you"?

"Tell me about Minerva, how she behaved, what she did to please 
you".   "I'll tell you nothing. I don't ask you who 'tis 
you're being unfaithful to, husband or lover. Frankly, I don't 
care".   For a moment she thought of answering with the truth 
but she knew there were men who shied away from virginity, who demanded 
some 
degree of education in body as well as mind.   "Very well", 
she said, "I'll not catechize you. What matter the others so long 
as I have my place in history".   She was striking the right 
note. No man ever had a better opinion of himself and indeed, with 
one so favored, flattery could hardly seem overdone. Brains and beauty, 
high position in both the social and intellectual worlds, athlete, 
fabled lover- if ever the world was any man's oyster it was his.

The light supper over, Claire went to him and, slipping an arm 
about his shoulder, sat on his knee. He drew her close and, hand on 
cheek, turned her face to his. Her lips, moist and parted, spoke his 
name.   "Byron"!   His hand went to her shoulder and 
pushed aside the knotted scarf that surmounted the striped poplin gown; 
then, to better purpose, he took hold of the knot and with dextrous 
fingers, untied it. The bodice beneath was buttoned and, withdrawing 
his lips from hers, he set her upright on his knee and started to 
undo it, unhurriedly as if she were a child.   But, kindled by 
his kiss, his caressing hand, her desire was aflame. She sprang up and 
went swiftly to the bedroom. Lord Byron poured himself another glass 
of wine and held it up to the candle flame admiring the rich color. 
He drank slowly with due appreciation. It was an excellent vintage.

He rose and went to the bedroom. Pausing in the doorway he said: 
"The form of the human female, unlike her mind and her spirit, 
is the most challenging loveliness in all nature". ##

When Claire 
returned to Bishopsgate she longed to tell them she had become 
Byron's mistress. By odd coincidence, on the evening of her return 
Shelley chose to read <Parisina>, which was the latest of the titled 
poet's successes. As he declaimed the sonorous measures, it was 
as much as Claire could do to restrain herself from bursting out with 
her dramatic tidings.   "Although it is not the best of which 
he is capable", said Shelley as he closed the book, "it is still 
poetry of a high order".   "If he would only leave the East", 
said Mary. "I am tired of sultans and scimitars". 
"The hero of his next poem is Napoleon Bonaparte", said Claire, 
with slightly overdone carelessness.   "How do you know that"? 
demanded Mary.   "I was told it on good authority", 
Claire answered darkly. "I mustn't tell, I mustn't tell", 
she repeated to herself. "I promised him I wouldn't". 

#CHAPTER 
9#

WINTER CAME, and with it Mary's baby- a boy as she 
had wished. William, he was called, in honor of the man who was at once 
Shelley's pensioner and his most bitter detractor. With a pardonable 
irony Shelley wrote to the father who had publicly disowned his 
daughter:   "Fanny and Mrs& Godwin will probably be glad 
to hear that Mary has safely recovered from a very favorable confinement, 
and that her child is well".   At the same time another 
child- this one of Shelley's brain- was given to the world: 
<Alastor>, a poem of pervading beauty in which the reader may gaze 
into the still depths of a fine mind's musings. <Alastor> was published 
only to be savagely attacked, contemptuously ignored. Shelley 
sent a copy to Southey, a former friend, and another to Godwin. Neither 
acknowledged the gift.   Only Mary's praise sustained him 
in his disappointment. She understood completely. Not a thought nor 
a cadence was missed in her summary of appreciation.   "You 
have made the labor worth while", he said to her, smiling. "And in 
the future, since I write for a public of one, I can save the poor 
publishers from wasting their money".   "A public of one", 
Mary echoed reprovingly. "how can you say such a thing? There 
will be thousands who will thrill to the loveliness of <Alastor>. There 
are some even now. What about that dear, clever Mr& Thynne? 
I am sure he is in raptures".   "Poor Mr& Thynne, he 
always has to be trotted out for my encouragement".   "There 
are other Mr& Thynnes. Not everyone is bewitched by Byron's 
caliphs and harem beauties".   Mary's supercritical attitude 
toward Byron had nothing to do with his moral disrepute. She was resentful 
of his easy success as compared with Shelley's failure. The 
same 
month that <Alastor> was published, Murray sold twenty thousand 
copies of <The Siege of Corinth>, a slovenly bit of Byronism that 
even Shelley's generosity rebelled at. ##

The lordly poet was 
at low-water mark. The careless writing was in keeping with his mood 
of savage discontent. On all sides doors were being slammed in his 
face. The previous scandals, gaily diverting as they were, had only 
served to increase his popularity. Now, under the impact of his wife's 
disclosures, he was brought suddenly to the realization that there 
was a limit to tolerance, however brilliant, however far-famed the offender 
might be. He tried defiance and openly flaunted his devotion 
to his half sister, but he soon saw, as did she, that this course if persisted 
in would involve them in a common ruin. For the moment there 
was no woman in his life, and it was this vacuum that had given Claire 
her opportunity.   But the liaison successfully started in the 
last days of autumn was now languishing. Byron, since the separation 
from his wife had been living in a smallish house in Piccadilly Terrace. 
He refused to bring Claire to it even as an occasional visitor, 
claiming that his every move was watched by spies of the Milbankes.

Beckworth handed the pass to the colonel. He had thought that 
the suggestion of taking it himself would tip the colonel in the direction 
of serving his own order, but the slip of paper was folded and absently 
thrust into the colonel's belt. Despite his yearning, the colonel 
would not go down to see the men come through the lines. He would 
remain in the tent, waiting impatiently, occupied by some trivial 
task.   -Beckworth.   -Sir?   -Fetch me the 
copies of everything ~B and ~C companies have requisitioned in the 
last 
six months.   -The last <six> months, sir?   -You 
heard me. There's a lot of waste going on here. It's got to stop. 
I want to take a look. This is no damned holiday, Beckworth. Get 
busy.   -Yes, sir.   Beckworth left the tent. Below 
he could see the bright torches lighting the riverbank. He glanced back. 
The colonel crouched tensely on one of the folding chairs, methodically 
tearing at his thumbnail. #@ 9 @#

THE BOMBPROOF was 
a low-ceilinged structure of heavy timbers covered with earth. It 
stood some fifty paces from the edge of the bank. From the outside, it 
seemed no more than a low drumlin, a lump on the dark earth. A crude 
ladder ran down to a wooden floor. Two slits enabled observers to watch 
across the river. The place smelled strongly of rank, fertile earth, 
rotting wood and urine. The plank floor was slimed beneath Watson's 
boots. At least the Union officer had been decent enough to provide 
a candle. There was no place to sit, but Watson walked slowly 
from the ladder to the window slits and back, stooping slightly to avoid 
striking his head on the heavy beams. In the corner was the soldier 
with the white flag. He stood stiffly erect, clutching the staff, his 
body half hidden by the limp cloth. Watson hardly looked at him. The 
man had come floundering aboard the flat-bottomed barge at the last 
instant, brandishing the flag of truce. Someone had hauled him over 
the side, and he had remained silent while they crossed.   An officer 
with a squad of men had been waiting on the bank. The men in the 
boats had started yelling happily at first sight of the officer, two 
of them calling him Billy. When the boat had touched, the weaker ones 
and the two wounded men had been lifted out and carried away by the 
soldiers. Watson had presented his pouch and been led to the bombproof. 
The officer had told him that both lists must be checked. Watson 
had given his name and asked for a safe-conduct pass. The officer, surprised, 
said he would have to see. Watson had nodded absently and muttered 
that he would check the lists himself later. He had peered through 
the darkness at the rampart. The men he would take back across 
the river stood there, but he turned away from them. He wanted no part 
of the emotions of the exchange, no memory of the joy and gratitude 
that other men felt. He had hoped to be alone in the bombproof, but the 
soldier had followed him. Though Watson carefully ignored the man, 
he could not deny his presence. Perhaps it would be better to speak 
to him, since silence could not exorcise his form. Watson glanced briefly 
at him, seeing only a body rigidly erect behind the languid banner.

-We won't be too long. If my pass is approved, I may 
be a half hour.   The soldier answered in a curious, muffled voice, 
his lips barely moving. Watson turned away and did not see the man's 
knees buckle and his body sag.   -Yes, sir.   He 
had acknowledged the man. It was easier to think now, Watson decided. 
The stiff figure in the corner no longer blocked his thoughts. He 
paced slowly, stooping, staring at the damp, slippery floor. He tried 
to order the words of the three Union officers, seeking to create some 
coherent portrait of the dead boy. But he groped blindly. His lack 
of success steadily eroded his interest. He stopped pacing, leaned 
against the dank, timbered wall and let his mind drift. A feeling of 
futility, an enervation of mind greater than any fatigue he had ever known, 
seeped through him. What in the name of God was he doing, crouched 
in a timbered pit on the wrong bank of the river? Why had he crossed 
the dark water, to bring back a group of reclaimed soldiers or 
to skulk in a foul-smelling hole?   He grew annoyed and at the 
same time surprised at that emotion. He was conscious of a growing sense 
of absurdity. Hillman had written it all out, hadn't he? Wasn't 
the report official enough? What did he hope to accomplish here? 
Hillman had ordered him not to leave the far bank. Prompted by 
a guilty urge, he had disobeyed the order of a man he respected. For 
what? To tell John something he would find out for himself.

The figure in the corner belched loudly, a deep, liquid eruption. Watson 
snorted and then laughed aloud. Exactly!   The soldier's 
voice was muffled again, stricken with chagrin. He clutched the 
staff, 
and his dark eyes blinked apologetically.   -'Scuse me, 
sir.   -Let's get out of here.   Watson ran up the ladder 
and stood for a second sucking in the cool air that smelled of mud 
and river weeds. To his left, the two skiffs dented their sharp bows 
into the soft bank. The flat-bottomed boat swung slowly to the pull 
of the current. A soldier held the end of a frayed rope.   Three 
Union guards appeared, carrying their rifles at ready. Watson stared 
at them 
curiously. They were stocky men, well fed and clean-shaven, with 
neat uniforms and sturdy boots. Behind them shambled a long column of 
weak, tattered men. The thin gray figures raised a hoarse, cawing cry 
like the call of a bird flock. They moved toward the skiffs with shocking 
eagerness, elbowing and shoving. Four men were knocked down, but 
did not attempt to rise. They crept down the muddy slope toward the 
waiting boats. The Union soldiers grounded arms and settled into healthy, 
indifferent postures to watch the feeble boarding of the skiffs. 
The crawling men tried to rise and fell again. No one moved to them. 
Watson watched two of them flounder into the shallow water and listened 
to their voices beg shrilly. In a confused, soaked and stumbling 
shift of bodies and lifting arms, the two men were dragged into the 
same skiff. The third crawling man forced himself erect. He swayed 
like a drunkard, his arms milling in slow circles. He paced forward unsteadily, 
leaning too far back, his head tilted oddly. His steps were 
short and stiff, and, with his head thrown back, his progress was a 
supercilious strut. He appeared to be peering haughtily down his nose 
at the crowded and unclean vessel that would carry him to freedom. He 
stalked into the water and fell heavily over the side of the flat-bottomed 
barge, his weight nearly swamping the craft. Watson looked for 
the fourth man. He had reached the three passive guards; he crept 
in an incertain manner, patting the ground before him. The guards did 
not look at him. The figure on the earth halted, seemingly bewildered. 
He sank back on his thin haunches like a weary hound. Then he began 
to crawl again. Watson watched the creeping figure. He felt a spectator 
interest. Would the man make it or not? If only there was a 
clock for him to crawl against. If he failed to reach the riverbank 
in five minutes, say, then the skiffs would pull away and leave him groping 
in the mud. Say three minutes to make it sporting. Still the guards 
did not move, but stood inert, aloof from the slow-scrambling man. 
The figure halted, and Watson gasped. The man began to creep in 
the wrong direction, deceived by a slight rise in the ground! He turned 
slowly and began to crawl back up the bank toward the rampart. Watson 
raced for him, his boots slamming the soft earth.   The guards 
came to life with astonishing menace. They spun and flung their rifles 
up. Watson gesticulated wildly. One man dropped to his knee for 
better aim.   -Let me help him, for the love of God!

The guards lowered their rifles and their rifles and peered at Watson 
with sullen, puzzled faces. Watson pounded to the crawling man and 
stopped, panting heavily. He reached down and closed his fingers on 
the man's upper arm. Beneath his clutch, a flat strip of muscle surged 
on the bone. Watson bent awkwardly and lifted the man to his feet. 
Watson stared into a cadaverous face. Two clotted balls the color 
of mucus rolled between fiery lids. Light sticks of fingers, the tips 
gummy with dark earth, patted at Watson's throat. The man's voice 
was a sweet, patient whisper.   -Henry said that he'd take 
my arm and get me right there. But you ain't Henry.   -No.

-It don't matter. Is it far?   How far could 
it be, Watson thought bleakly, how far can a blind man crawl? Another 
body length or all the rest of his nighted life?   -Not 
far.   -You talk deep. Not like us fellas. It raises the voice, 
bein in camp. You Secesh?   -Yes. Come on, now. Can 
you walk?   -Why, course I can. I can walk real good.

Watson stumbled down the bank. The man leaned his frail body 
against Watson's shoulder. He was no heavier than a child. Watson 
paused for breath. The man wheezed weakly, his fetid breath beating 
softly against Watson's neck. His sweet whisper came after great effort.

-Oh, Christ **h. I wish you was Henry **h. He promised 
to take me.   -Hush. We're almost there.   Watson 
supported the man to the edge of the bank and passed the frail figure 
over the bow of the nearest skiff. The man swayed on a thwart, turning 
his ruined eyes from side to side. Watson turned away, sickened for 
the first time in many months. He heard the patient voice calling.

-Henry? Where are you, Henry?   -Make him lie 
down!   Watson snatched a deep breath. He had not meant to shout. 
He stood with his back to the skiff. The men mewed and scratched, 
begging to be taken away. Watson spoke bewilderedly to the dark night 
flecked with pine-knot torches.   -<Goddamn you! What 
do you do to them?>   Intelligence jabbed at him accusingly. 
He was angry, sickened. He had not felt that during the afternoon. 
No, nor later. All his emotions had been inward, self-conscious. In 
war, on a night like this, it was only the outward emotions that mattered, 
what could be flung out into the darkness to damage others. Yes. 
That was it. He was sure of it.   John's type of man allowed 
this sort of thing to happen. What a fool he had been to think of 
his brother! So Charles was dead. What did it matter? His name 
had been crossed off a list. Already his cool body lay in the ground. 
What words had any meaning? What had he thought of, to go to John, 
grovel and beg understanding? To confess with a canvas chair as 
a <prie-dieu>, gouging at his heart until a rough and stupid hand bade 
him rise and go? Men were slaughtered every day, tumbled into eternity 
like so many torn parcels flung down a portable chute. What made 
him think John had a right to witness his brother's humiliation? 
What right had John to any special consideration? Was John better, 
more deserving? To hell with John. Let him chafe with impatience 
to see Charles, rip open the note with trembling hands and read 
the formal report in Hillman's beautiful, schoolmaster's hand. John 
would curse. He believed that brave boys didn't cry.   Watson 
spat on the ground. He was grimly satisfied. He had stupidly thought 
himself compelled to ease his brother's pain. Now he knew perfectly 
that he had but longed to increase his own suffering.

I WOULD not want to be one of those writers who begin each 
morning 
by exclaiming, "O Gogol, O Chekhov, O Thackeray and Dickens, 
what would you have made of a bomb shelter ornamented with four 
plaster-of-Paris ducks, 
a birdbath, and three composition gnomes with 
long beards and red mobcaps"? As I say, I wouldn't want to 
begin a day like this, but I often wonder what the dead would have done. 
But the shelter is as much a part of my landscape as the beech and 
horse-chestnut trees that grow on the ridge. I can see it from this 
window where I write. It was built by the Pasterns, and stands on 
the acre of ground that adjoins our property. It bulks under a veil of 
thin, new grass, like some embarrassing fact of physicalness, and I 
think Mrs& Pastern set out the statuary to soften its meaning. It 
would have been like her. She was a pale woman. Sitting on her terrace, 
sitting in her parlor, sitting anywhere, she ground an axe of self-esteem. 
Offer her a cup of tea and she would say, "Why, these cups 
look just like a set I gave to the Salvation Army last year". 
Show her the new swimming pool and she would say, slapping her ankle, 
"I suppose this must be where you breed your gigantic mosquitoes". 
Hand her a chair and she would say, "Why, it's a nice imitation 
of those Queen Anne chairs I inherited from Grandmother Delancy". 
These trumps were more touching than they were anything else, 
and seemed to imply that the nights were long, her children ungrateful, 
and her marriage bewilderingly threadbare. Twenty years ago, she would 
have been known as a golf widow, and the sum of her manner was perhaps 
one of bereavement. She usually wore weeds, and a stranger watching 
her board a train might have guessed that Mr& Pastern was dead, 
but Mr& Pastern was far from dead. He was marching up and down 
the locker room of the Grassy Brae Golf Club shouting, "Bomb Cuba! 
Bomb Berlin! Let's throw a little nuclear hardware at them 
and show them who's boss". He was brigadier of the club's locker-room 
light infantry, and at one time or another declared war on Russia, 
Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, and China.   It all began 
on an autumn afternoon- and who, after all these centuries, can describe 
the fineness of an autumn day? One might pretend never to have 
seen one before, or, to more purpose, that there would never be another 
like it. The clear and searching sweep of sun on the lawns was like 
a climax of the year's lights. Leaves were burning somewhere and 
the smoke smelled, for all its ammoniac acidity, of beginnings. The 
boundless blue air was stretched over the zenith like the skin of a drum. 
Leaving her house one late afternoon, Mrs& Pastern stopped to 
admire the October light. It was the day to canvass for infectious 
hepatitis. Mrs& Pastern had been given sixteen names, a bundle of 
literature, and a printed book of receipts. It was her work to go among 
her neighbors and collect their checks. Her house stood on a rise 
of ground, and before she got into her car she looked at the houses below. 
Charity as she knew it was complex and reciprocal, and almost every 
roof she saw signified charity. Mrs& Balcolm worked for the brain. 
Mrs& Ten Eyke did mental health. Mrs& Trenchard worked for 
the blind. Mrs& Horowitz was in charge of diseases of the nose 
and throat. Mrs& Trempler was tuberculosis, Mrs& Surcliffe was 
Mothers' March of Dimes, Mrs& Craven was cancer, and Mrs& 
Gilkson did the kidney. Mrs& Hewlitt led the birthcontrol league, 
Mrs& 
Ryerson was arthritis, and way in the distance could be seen the slate 
roof of Ethel Littleton's house, a roof that signified gout.

Mrs& Pastern undertook the work of going from house to house 
with the thoughtless resignation of an honest and traditional laborer. 
It was her destiny; it was her life. Her mother had done it before 
her, and even her old grandmother, who had collected money for smallpox 
and unwed mothers. Mrs& Pastern had telephoned most of her neighbors 
in advance, and most of them were ready for her. She experienced 
none of the suspense of some poor stranger selling encyclopedias. Here 
and there she stayed to visit and drink a glass of sherry. The contributions 
were ahead of what she had got the previous year, and while 
the money, of course, was not hers, it excited her to stuff her kit 
with big checks. She stopped at the Surcliffes' after dusk, and had 
a Scotch-and-soda. She stayed too late, and when she left, it was 
dark and time to go home and cook supper for her husband. "I got a 
hundred and sixty dollars for the hepatitis fund", she said excitedly 
when he walked in. "I did everybody on my list but the Blevins 
and the Flannagans. I want to get my kit in tomorrow morning- would 
you mind doing them while I cook the dinner"?   "But I 
don't know the Flannagans", Charlie Pastern said.   "Nobody 
does, but they gave me ten last year".   He was tired, he 
had his business worries, and the sight of his wife arranging pork chops 
in the broiler only seemed like an extension of a boring day. He 
was happy enough to take the convertible and race up the hill to the 
Blevins', thinking that they might give him a drink. But the Blevins 
were away; their maid gave him an envelope with a check in it and 
shut the door. Turning in at the Flannagans' driveway, he tried 
to remember if he had ever met them. The name encouraged him, because 
he always felt that he could <handle> the Irish. There was a glass 
pane in the front door, and through this he could see into a hallway 
where a plump woman with red hair was arranging flowers.   "Infectious 
hepatitis", he shouted heartily.   She took a good look 
at herself in the mirror before she turned and, walking with very 
small steps, started toward the door. "Oh, please come in", she said. 
The girlish voice was nearly a whisper. She was not a girl, he 
could see. Her hair was dyed, and her bloom was fading, and she must 
have been crowding forty, but she seemed to be one of those women who 
cling to the manners and graces of a pretty child of eight. "Your wife 
just called", she said, separating one word from another, exactly 
like a child. "And I am not sure that I have any cash- any <money>, 
that is- but if you will wait just a minute I will write you 
out a check if I can find my checkbook. Won't you step into the 
living room, where it's cozier"?   A fire had just been lighted, 
he saw, and things had been set out for drinks, and, like any 
stray, his response to these comforts was instantaneous. Where was <Mr>& 
Flannagan, he wondered. Travelling home on a late train? 
Changing his clothes upstairs? Taking a shower? At the end of the 
room there was a desk heaped with papers, and she began to riffle these, 
making sighs and and noises of girlish exasperation. "I am terribly 
sorry to keep you waiting", she said, "but won't you make 
yourself a little drink while you wait? Everything's on the table".

"What train does Mr& Flannagan come out on"?

"Mr& Flannagan is away", she said. Her voice dropped. 
"Mr& Flannagan has been away for six weeks **h".   "I'll 
have a drink, then, if you'll have one with me".   "If 
you will promise to make it weak".   "Sit down", he said, 
"and enjoy your drink and look for your checkbook later. The only 
way to find things is to relax".   All in all, they had six drinks. 
She described herself and her circumstances unhesitatingly. Mr& 
Flannagan manufactured plastic tongue depressors. He travelled 
all over the world. She didn't like to travel. Planes made her feel 
faint, and in Tokyo, where she had gone that summer, she had been given 
raw fish for breakfast and so she had come straight home. She and 
her husband had formerly lived in New York, where she had many friends, 
but Mr& Flannagan thought the country would be safer in case 
of war. She would rather live in danger than die of loneliness and boredom. 
She had no children; she had made no friends. "I've seen 
you, though, before", she said with enormous coyness, patting his 
knee. "I've seen you walking your dogs on Sunday and driving by 
in the convertible **h".   The thought of this lonely woman sitting 
at her window touched him, although he was even more touched by 
her plumpness. Sheer plumpness, he knew, is not a vital part of the 
body and has no procreative functions. It serves merely as an excess 
cushion for the rest of the carcass. And knowing its humble place in 
the scale of things, why did he, at this time of life, seem almost ready 
to sell his soul for plumpness? The remarks she made about the sufferings 
of a lonely woman seemed so broad at first that he didn't 
know what to make of them, but after the sixth drink he put his arm around 
her and suggested that they go upstairs and look for her checkbook 
there.   "I've never done this before", she said later, 
when he was arranging himself to leave. Her voice shook with feeling, 
and he thought it lovely. He didn't doubt her truthfulness, although 
he had heard the words a hundred times. "I've never done this 
before", they always said, shaking their dresses down over their white 
shoulders. "I've never done this before", they always said, 
waiting for the elevator in the hotel corridor. "I've never done 
this before", they always said, pouring another whiskey. "I've 
never done this before", they always said, putting on their stockings. 
On ships at sea, on railroad trains, in summer hotels with mountain views, 
they always said, "I've never done this before". ##

"Where 
have you been"? Mrs& Pastern asked sadly, when he came 
in. "It's after eleven".   "I had a drink with the Flannagans".

"She told me he was in Germany".   "He 
came home unexpectedly".   Charlie ate some supper in the 
kitchen and went into the ~TV room to hear the news. "Bomb them"! 
he shouted. "Throw a little nuclear hardware at them! Show 
them who's boss"! But in bed he had trouble sleeping. He thought 
first of his son and daughter, away at college. He loved them. 
It was the only meaning of the word that he had ever known. Then he 
played nine imaginary holes of golf, choosing his handicap, his irons, 
his stance, his opponents, and his weather in detail, but the green of 
the links seemed faded in the light of his business worries. His money 
was tied up in a Nassau hotel, an Ohio pottery works, and a detergent 
for window-washing, and luck had been running against him. His 
worries harried him up out of bed, and he lighted a cigarette and went 
to the window. In the starlight he could see the trees stripped of their 
leaves. During the summer he had tried to repair some of his losses 
at the track, and the bare trees reminded him that his pari-mutuel 
tickets would still be lying, like leaves, in the gutters near Belmont 
and Saratoga. Maple and ash, beech and elm, one hundred to win on 
Three in the fourth, fifty to win on Six in the third, one hundred 
to win on Two in the eighth. Children walking home from school would 
scuff through what seemed to be his foliage. Then, getting back into 
bed, he thought unashamedly of Mrs& Flannagan, planning where they 
would next meet and what they would do. There are, he thought, so few 
true means of forgetfulness in this life that why should he shun the 
medicine even when the medicine seemed, as it did, a little crude? 
It was not as though she noted clearly that her nephews had not been 
to see her for ten years, not since their last journey eastward to witness 
their Uncle Izaak being lowered into the rocky soil; that aside 
from due notification of certain major events in their lives (two marriages, 
two births, one divorce), Christmas and Easter cards of the 
traditional sort had been the only thin link she had with them through 
the widowed years. Her thoughts were not discrete. But there was 
a look about her mouth as though she were tasting lemons.   She 
grasped the chair arms and brought her thin body upright, like a bird 
alert for flight. She turned and walked stiffly into the parlor to the 
dainty-legged escritoire, warped and cracked now from fifty years in 
an atmosphere of sea spray. There she extracted two limp vellum sheets 
and wrote off the letters, one to Abel, one to Mark.   Once 
her trembling hand, with the pen grasped tight in it, was pressed against 
the paper the words came sharply, smoothly, as authoritatively as 
they would dropping from her own lips. And the stiffly regal look of 
them, she saw grimly, lacked the quaver of age which, thwarting the efforts 
of her amazing will, ran through her spoken words like a thin ragged 
string. "Please come down as soon as you conveniently can", 
the upright letters stalked from the broad-nibbed pen, "I have an 
important matter to discuss with you". To Abel: "I am afraid 
there is not much to amuse small children here. I should be obliged 
if you could make other arrangements for your daughters. You may stay 
as long as you wish, of course, but if arranging for the care of the 
girls must take time into account, I think a day or two should be enough 
to finish our business in". To Mark: "Please give my regards 
to Myra".   She signed the letters quickly, stamped them, and 
placed them on the hall table for Raphael to mail in town. Then she 
went back to the wicker chair and resolutely adjusted her eyes to the 
glare on the water.   "My nephews will be coming down", she 
said that evening as Angelina brought her dinner into the dining room, 
the whole meal on a vast linen-covered tray. She looked at the girl 
speculatively from eyes which had paled with the years; from the 
early evening lights of them which had first startled Izaak to look 
at 
her in an uncousinly way, they had faded to a near-absence of color which 
had, possibly from her constant looking at the water, something of 
the light of the sea in them.   Angelina placed the tray on the 
table and with a flick of dark wrist drew off the cloth. She smiled, 
and the teeth gleamed in her beautifully modeled olive face. "That 
will be so nice for you, Mrs& Packard", she said. Her voice was 
ripe and full and her teeth flashed again in Sicilian brilliance before 
the warm curved lips met and her mouth settled in repose. 
"Um", said the old lady, and brought her eyes down to the tray. 
"You remember them, I suppose"? She glinted suspiciously at the 
dish before her: "Blowfish. I hope Raphael bought them whole".

Angelina stepped back, her eyes roaming the tray for omissions. 
Then she looked at the old woman again, her eyes calm.   "Yes", 
she said, "I remember that they came here every summer. 
I used to play with the older one sometimes, when he'd let me. Abel"? 
The name fell with lazy affectionate remembrance from her lips. 
For an instant the old aunt felt something indefinable flash through 
her smile. She would have said triumph. Then Angelina turned and 
with an easy grace walked toward the kitchen.   Jessica Packard 
lifted her head and followed the retreating figure, her eyes resting 
nearly closed on the unself-conscious rise and fall of the rounded hips. 
For a moment she held her face to the empty doorway; then she snorted 
and groped for her fork.   There's no greater catastrophe 
in the universe, she reflected dourly, impaling tender green beans 
on the silver fork, than the dwindling away of a family. Procreation, 
expansion, proliferation- these are the laws of living things, with 
the penalty for not obeying them the ultimate in punishments: oblivion. 
When the fate of the individual is visited on the group, then (the 
warm sweet butter dripped from her raised trembling fork and she pushed 
her head forward belligerently), ah, then the true bitterness of 
existence could be tasted. And indeed the young garden beans were brackish 
in her mouth.   She was the last living of the older generation. 
What had once been a widespread family- at one time, she knew, 
there were enough Packards to populate an entire county- had now 
narrowed down to the two boys, Abel and Mark. She swung her eyes up 
to the blue of the window, her jaws gently mashing the bitter beans. 
What hope lay in the nephews, she asked the intensifying light out there, 
with one married to a barren woman and the other divorced, having 
sired two girl children, with none to bear on the Packard name?

She ate. It seemed to her, as it seemed each night, that the gloom 
drew itself in and became densest at the table's empty chairs, 
giving her the frequent illusion that she dined with shadows. Here, too, 
she talked low, quirking her head at one or another of the places, 
most often at Izaak's armchair which faced her across the long table. 
Or it might have been the absent nephews she addressed, consciously 
playing with the notion that this was one of the summers of their early 
years.   She thought again of her children, those two who had 
died young, before the later science which might have saved them could 
attach even a label to their separate malignancies. The girl, her 
first, she barely remembered. It could have been anyone's infant, for 
it had not survived the bassinet. But the boy **h the boy had been 
alive yesterday. Each successive movement in his growing was recorded 
on the unreeling film inside her. He ran on his plump sticks of 
legs, 
freezing now and again into the sudden startled attitudes which the 
camera had caught and held on the paling photographs, all carefully placed 
and glued and labeled, resting in the fat plush album in the bottom 
drawer of the escritoire. In the cruel clearness of her memory the 
boy remained unchanged, quick with the delight of laughter, and the pain 
with which she recalled that short destroyed childhood was still unendurable 
to her. It was one with the desolate rocks and the alien water 
on those days when she hated the sea. ##

The brothers drove 
down together in Mark's small red sports car, Mark at the wheel. They 
rarely spoke. Abel sat and regarded the farm country which, spreading 
out from both sides of the road, rolled greenly up to where the 
silent white houses and long barns and silos nested into the tilled fields. 
He saw the land with a stranger's eyes, all the old familiarness 
gone. And it presented itself to him as it would to any stranger, 
impervious, complete in itself. There was stability there, too- a 
color which his life had had once. That is what childhood is, he told 
himself. Solid, settled **h lost. In the stiff neutral lines of the 
telephone poles he saw the no-nonsense pen strokes of Aunt Jessica's 
letter. What bad grace, what incredible selfishness he and Mark 
had shown. The boyhood summers preceding their uncle's funeral might 
never have been. They had closed over, absolutely, with the sealing 
of old Izaak's grave. The small car flew on relentlessly. The old 
woman, stubbornly reigning in the house above the crashing waters took 
on an ominous reality. Abel moved and adjusted his long legs.

"I suppose it has to do with the property", Mark had said over 
the telephone when they had discussed their receipt of the letters. 
Not until the words had been spoken did Abel suddenly see the old house 
and the insistent sea, and feel his contrition blotted out in one 
shameful moment of covetousness. He and Mark were the last of the family, 
and there lay the Cape Ann property which had seemed to have no 
end, stretching from horizon to horizon, in those golden days of summer.

Now Abel turned his head to look at his brother. Mark held 
the wheel loosely, but his fingers curved around it in a purposeful 
way and the deliberate set of his body spoke plainly of the figure he'd 
make in the years to come. His sandy hair was already beginning 
to thin and recede at the sides, and Abel looked quickly away. Mark 
easily looked years older than himself, settled, his world comfortably 
categorized.   The vacation traffic was becoming heavier as they 
approached the sea. "She didn't mention bringing Myra", Mark 
said, maneuvering the car into the next lane. "She's probably 
getting old- crotchety, I mean- and we figured uh-uh, better not. 
They've never met, you know. But Myra wouldn't budge without 
an express invitation. I feel kind of bad about it". He gave Abel 
a quick glance and moved closer to the wheel, hugging it to him, and 
Abel caught this briefest of allusions to guilt.   "I imagine 
the old girl hasn't missed us much", Mark added, his eyes on the 
road. Abel ignored the half-expressed bid for confirmation. He smiled. 
It was barely possible that his brother was right.   He could 
tell they were approaching the sea. The air took on a special strength 
now that they'd left the fecund warmth of the farmland behind. 
There was the smell of the coast, like a primeval memory, composed 
of equal parts salt water, clams, seaweed and northern air. He turned 
from the flying trees to look ahead and saw with an inward boy's eye 
again the great fieldstone house which, built on one of the many acres 
of ancestral land bordering the west harbor, had been Izaak's bride-gift 
to his cousin-wife as the last century ended.   Mark's 
thoughts must have been keeping silent pace beside his own, climbing 
the same crags in dirty white sneakers, clambering out on top of the 
headland and coming upon the sudden glinting water at the same instant. 
"Remember the <Starbird?>" Mark asked, and Abel lifted his 
eyes from the double lines in the middle of the road, the twin white 
ribbons which the car swallowed rapidly as it ascended the crest of 
the hill and came down.   "The <Starbird,>" Abel said. There 
was the day Uncle Izaak had, in an unexpected grandiose gesture, 
handed over the pretty sloop to Abel for keeps, on condition that 
he never fail to let his brother accompany him whenever the younger boy 
wished. The two of them had developed into a remarkable sailing team 
**h all of this happening in a time of their lives when their youth 
and their brotherhood knitted them together as no other time or circumstance 
could. They seemed then to have had a single mind and body, a 
mutuality which had been accepted with the fact of their youth, casually. 
He saw the <Starbird> as she lay, her slender mast up and gently 
turning, its point describing constant languid circles against a cumulus 
sky. Both of them had known the feeling of the small life in her 
waiting, ready, for the two of them to run up her sails. The <Starbird> 
had been long at the bottom of the bay.   They came unexpectedly 
upon the sea. Meeting it without preparation as they did, robbed 
of anticipation, a common disappointment seized them. They were 
climbing the hill in the night when the headlights abruptly probed solid 
blackness, became two parallel luminous tubes which broadened out into 
a faint mist of light and ended. Mark stopped the car and switched 
off the lights and they sat looking at the water, which, there being 
no moon out, at first could be distinguished from the sky only by an 
absence of stars. 
His eyes were old and they never saw well, but heated with whisky they'd 
glare at my noise, growing red and raising up his rage. I decided 
I hated the Pedersen kid too, dying in our kitchen while I was away 
where I couldn't watch, dying just to entertain Hans and making 
me go up snapping steps and down a drafty hall, Pa lumped under the 
covers at the end like dung covered with snow, snoring and whistling. 
Oh he'd not care about the Pedersen kid. He'd not care about getting 
waked so he could give up some of his whisky to a slit of a kid 
and maybe lose one of his hiding places in the bargain. That would make 
him mad enough if he was sober. I didn't hurry though it was cold 
and the Pedersen kid was in the kitchen.   He was all shoveled 
up like I thought he'd be. I pushed at his shoulder, calling 
his 
name. I think his name stopped the snoring but he didn't move except 
to roll a little when I shoved him. The covers slid down his skinny 
neck so I saw his head, fuzzed like a dandelion gone to seed, but 
his face was turned to the wall- there was the pale shadow of his nose 
on the plaster- and I thought, Well you don't look much like 
a pig-drunk bully now. I couldn't be sure he was still asleep. He 
was a cagey sonofabitch. I shook him a little harder and made some noise. 
"Pap-pap-pap-hey", I said.   I was leaning too far over. 
I knew better. He always slept close to the wall so you had to lean 
to reach him. Oh he was smart. It put you off. I knew better but 
I was thinking of the Pedersen kid mother-naked in all that dough. 
When his arm came up I ducked away but it caught me on the side of 
the neck, watering my eyes, and I backed off to cough. Pa was on his 
side, looking at me, his eyes winking, the hand that had hit me a fist 
in the pillow.   "Get the hell out of here".   I didn't 
say anything, trying to get my throat clear, but I watched him. 
He was like a mean horse to come at from the rear. It was better, though, 
he'd hit me. He was bitter when he missed.   "Get the 
hell out of here".   "Big Hans sent me. He told me to wake 
you".   "A fat hell on Big Hans. Get out of here".

"He found the Pedersen kid by the crib".   "Get the 
hell out".   Pa pulled at the covers. He was tasting his mouth.

"The kid's froze good. Hans is rubbing him with snow. 
He's got him in the kitchen".   "Pedersen"? 
"No, Pa. It's the Pedersen kid. The kid".   "Nothing 
to steal from the crib".   "Not stealing, Pa. He was just 
lying there. Hans found him froze. That's where he was when Hans 
found him".   Pa laughed.   "I ain't hid nothing in 
the crib".   "You don't understand, Pa. The Pedersen 
kid. The kid"-   "I god damn well understand".   Pa 
had his head up, glaring, his teeth gnawing at the place where he'd 
grown a mustache once.   "I god damn well understand. You 
know I don't want to see Pedersen. That cock. Why should I? What 
did he come for, hey? God dammit, get. And don't come back. 
Find out something. You're a fool. Both you and Hans. Pedersen. 
That cock. Don't come back. Out. Out".   He was shouting 
and breathing hard and closing his fist on the pillow. He had long 
black hairs on his wrist. They curled around the cuff of his nightshirt.

"Big Hans made me come. Big Hans said"-   "A 
fat hell on Big Hans. He's an even bigger fool than you are. 
Fat, hey? I taught him, dammit, and I'll teach you. Out. You 
want me to drop my pot"?   He was about to get up so I got 
out, slamming the door. He was beginning to see he was too mad to sleep. 
Then he threw things. Once he went after Hans and dumped his pot 
over the banister. Pa'd been shit-sick in that pot. Hans got an 
axe. He didn't even bother to wipe himself off and he chopped part 
of Pa's door down before he stopped. He might not have gone that 
far if Pa hadn't been locked in laughing fit to shake the house. 
That pot put Pa in an awful good humor whenever he thought of it. I 
always felt the memory was present in both of them, stirring in their 
chests like a laugh or a growl, as eager as an animal to be out. I 
heard Pa cursing all the way downstairs.   Hans had laid steaming 
towels over the kid's chest and stomach. He was rubbing snow on 
the kid's legs and feet. Water from the snow and water from the towels 
had run off the kid to the table where the dough was, and the dough 
was turning pasty, sticking to the kid's back and behind.   "Ain't 
he going to wake up"?   "What about your pa"?

"He was awake when I left".   "What'd he say? 
Did you get the whisky"?   "He said a fat hell on Big 
Hans".   "Don't be smart. Did you ask him about the whisky"?

"Yeah".   "Well"?   "He said 
a fat hell on Big Hans".   "Don't be smart. What's 
he going to do"?   "Go back to sleep most likely".

"You'd best get that whisky".   "You go. Take the axe. 
Pa's scared to hell of axes".   "Listen to me, Jorge, 
I've had enough to your sassing. This kid's froze bad. If I don't 
get some whisky down him he might die. You want the kid to die? 
Do you? Well, get your pa and get that whisky".   "Pa 
don't care about the kid".   "Jorge".   "Well 
he don't. He don't care at all, and I don't care to get my head 
busted neither. He don't care, and I don't care to have his shit 
flung on me. He don't care about anybody. All he cares about is 
his whisky and that dry crack in his face. Get pig-drunk- that's 
what he wants. He don't care about nothing else at all. Nothing. 
Not Pedersen's kid neither. That cock. Not the kid neither".

"I'll get the spirits", Ma said.   I'd wound Big 
Hans up tight. I was ready to jump but when Ma said she'd get the 
whisky it surprised him like it surprised me, and he ran down. Ma 
never went near the old man when he was sleeping it off. Not any more. 
Not for years. The first thing every morning when she washed her face 
she could see the scar on her chin where he'd cut her with a boot 
cleat, and maybe she saw him heaving it again, the dirty sock popping 
out as it flew. It should have been nearly as easy for her to remember 
that as it was for Big Hans to remember going after the axe while 
he was still spattered with Pa's yellow sick insides.   "No 
you won't", Big Hans said.   "Yes, Hans, if they're 
needed", 
Ma said.   Hans shook his head but neither of us tried 
to stop her. If we had, then one of us would have had to go instead. 
Hans rubbed the kid with more snow **h rubbed **h rubbed.   "I'll 
get more snow", I said. I took the pail and shovel and went 
out on the porch. I don't know where Ma went. I thought she'd 
gone upstairs and expected to hear she had. She had surprised Hans 
like she had surprised me when she said she'd go, and then she surprised 
him again when she came back so quick like she must have, because 
when I 
came in with the snow she was there with a bottle with three 
white feathers on its label and Hans was holding it angrily by the throat.

Oh, he was being queer and careful, pawing about in the 
drawer and holding the bottle like a snake at the length of his arm. 
He was awful angry because he'd thought Ma was going to do something 
big, something heroic even, especially for her **h I know him **h 
I know him **h we felt the same sometimes **h while Ma wasn't thinking 
about 
that at all, not anything like that. There was no way of getting 
even. It wasn't like getting cheated at the fair. They were always 
trying so you got to expect it. Now Hans had given Ma something of 
his- we both had when we thought she was going straight to Pa- 
something valuable; but since she didn't know we'd given it to her, 
there was no easy way of getting it back.   Hans cut the foil 
off finally and unscrewed the cap. He was put out too because there 
was only one way of understanding what she'd done. Ma had found one 
of Pa's hiding places. She'd found one and she hadn't said a 
word while Big Hans and I had hunted and hunted as we always did all 
winter, every winter since the spring that Hans had come and I had 
looked in the privy and found the first one. Pa had a knack for hiding. 
He knew we were looking and he enjoyed it. But now Ma. She'd 
found it by luck most likely but she hadn't said anything and we didn't 
know how long ago it'd been or how many other ones she'd found, 
saying nothing. Pa was sure to find out. Sometimes he didn't 
seem to because he hid them so well he couldn't find them himself or 
because he looked and didn't find anything and figured he hadn't 
hid one after all or had drunk it up. But he'd find out about this 
one because we were using it. A fool could see what was going on. If 
he found out Ma found it- that'd be bad. He took pride in his 
hiding. It was all the pride he had. I guess fooling Hans and me took 
doing. But he didn't figure Ma for much. He didn't figure her 
at all, and if he found out 
**h a woman **h it'd be bad.   Hans 
poured some in a tumbler.   "You going to put more towels on him"?

"No".   "Why not? That's what he needs, 
something warm to his skin, don't he"?   "Not where 
he's froze good. Heat's bad for frostbite. That's why I only 
put towels on his chest and belly. He's got to thaw slow. You ought 
to know that".   Colors on the towels had run.   Ma poked 
her toe in the kid's clothes.   "What are we going to do 
with these"?   Big Hans began pouring whisky in the kid's 
mouth but his mouth filled without any getting down his throat and in 
a second it was dripping from his chin.   "Here, help me prop 
him up. I got hold his mouth open".   I didn't want to touch 
him and I hoped Ma would do it but she kept looking at the kid's 
clothes piled on the floor and the pool of water by them and didn't 
make any move to.   "Come on, Jorge".   "All right".

"Lift, don't shove **h lift".   "O&K&, 
I'm lifting".   I took him by the shoulders. His head flopped 
back. His mouth fell open. The skin on his neck was tight. He 
was cold all right.   "Hold his head up. He'll choke".

"His mouth is open".   "His throat's shut. He'll 
choke".   "He'll choke anyway".   "Hold his 
head up".   "I can't".   "Don't hold him like 
that. Put your arms around him".   "Well Jesus". 
He was cold all right. I put my arm carefully around him. Hans had 
his fingers in the kid's mouth.   "Now he'll choke for sure".

"Shut up. Just hold him like I told you".   He 
was cold all right, and wet. I had my arm behind his back. 
He was in his mid-fifties at this time, long past the establishment of 
his name and the wish to be lionized yet once again, and it was almost 
a decade since he had sworn off lecturing. There was never a doubt 
any more how his structures would be received; it was always the same 
unqualified success now. He could no longer build anything, whether 
a private residence in his Pennsylvania county or a church in Brazil, 
without it being obvious that he had done it, and while here and there 
he was taken to task for again developing the same airy technique, 
they were such fanciful and sometimes even playful buildings that the 
public felt assured by its sense of recognition after a time, a quality 
of authentic uniqueness about them, which, once established by an 
artist as his private vision, is no longer disputable as to its other 
values. Stowey Rummel was internationally famous, a crafter of a genuine 
Americana in foreign eyes, an original designer whose inventive 
childishness with steel and concrete was made even more believably sincere 
by his personality. He had lived for almost thirty years in this 
same stone farmhouse with the same wife, a remarkably childish thing 
in itself; he rose at half-past six every morning, made himself some 
French coffee, had his corn flakes and more coffee, smoked four cigarettes 
while reading last Sunday's <Herald Tribune> and yesterday's 
Pittsburgh <Gazette>, then put on his high-topped farmer's 
shoes and walked under a vine bower to his workshop. This was an enormously 
long building whose walls were made of rocks, some of them brought 
