the college years results in a certain, selective homogenization of 
attitudes and values>. Detached from their prior statuses and social 
groups and exposed to the pervasive stimuli of the university milieu, 
the students tend to assimilate a new common <culture>, to converge 
toward norms characteristic of their own particular campus. Furthermore, 
in certain respects, there are norms common to colleges and universities 
across the country. For instance, college-educated people consistently 
show up in study after study as more often than others supporters 
of the Bill of Rights and other democratic rights and liberties. 
The interesting thing in this connection is that the norms upon which 
students tend to converge include toleration of diversity. 
To the extent that our sampling of the orientations of American college 
students in the years 1950 and 1952 may be representative of our 
culture- and still valid in 1959- <we are disposed to question the 
summary characterization of the current generation as silent, beat, 
apathetic>, or as a mass of other-directed conformists who are guided 
solely by social radar without benefit of inner gyroscopes. Our data 
indicate that these students of today do basically accept the existing 
institutions of the society, and, in the face of the realities of complex 
and large-scale economic and political problems, make a wary and 
ambivalent delegation of trust to those who occupy positions of legitimized 
responsibility for coping with such collective concerns. <In 
a real sense they are admittedly conservative>, but their conservatism 
incorporates a traditionalized embodiment of the original "radicalism" 
of 1776. Although we have no measures of its strength or intensity, 
the heritage of the doctrine of inalienable rights is retained. 
As they move through the college years our young men and women are "socialized" 
into a broadly similar culture, at the level of personal 
behavior. In this sense also, they are surely conformists. It is 
even true that some among them use the sheer fact of conformity- "everyone 
does it"- as a criterion for conduct. But the extent of 
ethical robotism is easily overestimated. Few students are really so 
faceless in the not-so-lonely crowd of the swelling population in our 
institutions of higher learning. And it may be well to recall that to 
say 
"conformity" is, in part, another way of saying "orderly human 
society".   In the field of religious beliefs and values, the 
college students seem to faithfully reflect the surrounding culture. 
Their commitments are, for the most part, couched in a familiar idiom. 
<Students testify to a felt need for a religious faith or ultimate 
personal philosophy. Avowed atheists or freethinkers are so rare as 
to be a curiosity>. The religious quest is often intense and deep, 
and there are students on every campus who are seriously wrestling with 
the most profound questions of meaning and value. At the same time, 
a major proportion of these young men and women see religion as a means 
of personal adjustment, an anchor for family life, a source of emotional 
security. These personal and social goals often overshadow the 
goals of intellectual clarity, and spiritual transcendence. The "cult 
of adjustment" does exist. It exists alongside the acceptance of 
traditional forms of organized religion (church, ordained personnel, 
ritual, dogma). Still another segment of the student population consists 
of those who seek, in what they regard as religion, intellectual clarity, 
rational belief, and ethical guidance and reinforcement.

Our first impression of the data was that the students were surprisingly 
orthodox and religiously involved. Upon second thought we were 
forced to realize that we have very few reliable historical benchmarks 
against which we might compare the present situation, and that conclusions 
that present-day students are "more" or "less" religious 
could not be defended on the basis of our data. As we looked more intently 
at the content of our belief and the extent of religious participation, 
we received the impression that many of the religious convictions 
expressed represented a conventional acceptance, of low intensity. 
But, here again, comparative benchmarks are lacking, and we do not 
know, in any case, what measure of profoundity and intensity to expect 
from healthy, young, secure and relatively inexperienced persons; 
after all, feelings of immortality and invulnerability are standard illusions 
of youth. Nor are optimistic and socially-oriented themes at 
all rare in the distinctive religious history of this country. 
Kluckhohn recently has summarized evidence regarding changes in values 
during a period of years, primarily 1935-1955, but extending much farther 
back in some instances. A variety of data are assembled to bear 
upon such alleged changes as diminished puritan morality, work-success 
ethic, individualism, achievement, lessened emphasis on future-time 
orientation in favor of sociability, moral relativism, consideration and 
tolerance, conformity, hedonistic present-time orientation. Although 
he questions the extent and nature of the alleged revival of religion 
and the alleged increase in conformity, and thinks that "hedonistic" 
present-time orientation does not have the meaning usually attributed 
to it, he does conclude that Americans increasingly enjoy leisure 
without guilt, do not stress achievement so much as formerly, are more 
accepting of group harmony as a goal, more tolerant of diversity and 
aware of other cultures.

From New Jersey, Morgan hastened to the headquarters of Washington 
at Whitemarsh, Pennsylvania, arriving there on November 18th. 
There was much sickness in the corps, and the men were, in addition, 
without the clothing, shoes, and blankets needed for the winter weather. 
Morgan himself had sciatica again. Even on his tough constitution, 
the exposure and strenuous activity were beginning to tell in earnest.

On the morning of November 17th, Cornwallis and 2,000 
men had left Philadelphia with the object of capturing Fort Mercer 
at Red Bank, New Jersey. In order to prevent this, Washington hastened 
to dispatch several units to reinforce the fort, including a force 
under the Marquis de Lafayette containing some 160 of Morgan's 
riflemen, all who were fit for duty at this time, the rest having no shoes. 
Although the fort was evacuated in the face of the force of Cornwallis, 
Morgan and his men did have a chance to take another swing 
at the redcoats. A picket guard of about 350, mostly Hessians, were 
attacked by the Americans under Lafayette, and driven back to their 
camp, some twenty to thirty of them falling before the riflemen's fire.

"I never saw men", Lafayette declared in regard to the 
riflemen, "so merry, so spirited, and so desirous to go on to the 
enemy, whatever force they might have, as that small party in this fight". 
Nathanael Greene told Washington that "Lafayette was charmed 
with the spirited behavior of the militia and riflemen". 
A few days later it was learned that General Howe was planning an 
attack upon the American camp. The British general moved his forces 
north from Philadelphia to Chestnut Hill, near the right wing of 
the patriot encampment. Here the Pennsylvania militia skirmished with 
the British, but soon fled. Morgan was ordered to attack the enemy, 
who had meantime moved to Edge Hill on the left of the Americans. 
Similar orders were given to the Maryland militia. Morgan immediately 
disposed his troops for action and found he had not long to wait. 
A body of redcoats were seen marching down a nearby slope, a tempting 
target for the riflemen, who threw a volley into their ranks and "messed 
up" the smart formation considerably. Now the riflemen and the 
Marylanders followed up their beginning and closed in on the British, 
giving them another telling round of fire. The redcoats ran like 
rabbits. But the Maryland militia had likewise fled, all too typical 
of this type of soldier during the Revolution, an experience which gave 
Morgan little confidence in militia in general, as he watched other 
instances of their breaking in hot engagements. The British, although 
suffering considerable losses, noted the defection of the Marylanders, 
made a stand, then turned and attacked Morgan who became greatly 
outnumbered and had to retire.   The Americans lost forty-four 
men, among them Major Joseph Morris of Morgan's regiment, an 
officer who was regarded with high esteem and affection, not only by his 
commander, but by Washington and Lafayette as well. The latter was 
so upset on learning of the death of Morris, that he wrote Morgan 
a letter, showing his own warmhearted generosity. After complimenting 
Morgan and the riflemen and saying he was praising them to Congress, 
too, the ardent Frenchman added he felt that Congress should make 
some financial restitution to the widow and family of Morris, but that 
he 
knew Morgan realized how long such action usually required, if it was 
done at all. "As Mrs& Morris may be in some want before that 
time", Lafayette continued, "I am going to trouble you with a commission 
which I beg you will execute with the greatest secrecy. If 
she wanted to borrow any sum of money in expecting the arrangements of 
Congress, it would not become a stranger, unknown to her, to offer himself 
for that purpose. But you could (as from yourself) tell her that 
you had friends who, being with the army, don't know what to do with 
their money and **h would willingly let her have one or many thousand 
dollars". This was accordingly done, and the plight of the grateful 
Mrs& Morris was much relieved as a result of the generous loan, 
the amount of which is not known.   Apparently still sensitive 
about the idea with which General Gates had approached him at Saratoga, 
namely, that George Washington be replaced, Morgan was vehement 
in his support of the commander-in-chief during the campaign around 
Philadelphia. Richard Peters, Secretary of the Board of War, thought 
Morgan was so extreme on the subject that he accused him of trying 
to pick a quarrel. Morgan hotly denied this and informed the Board 
of War that the men in camp linked the name of Peters with the plot 
against Washington. Peters insisted that this impression was a great 
misunderstanding, and evidently, from the quarrel, obtained an unfavorable 
impression of Morgan's judgment. Such a situation regarding 
the Board of War could hardly have helped Morgan's chances for 
promotion when that matter came before the group later on.   In 
late December, the American army moved from Whitemarsh to Valley 
Forge, and although the distance was only 13 miles, the journey took 
more than a week because of the bad weather, the barefooted and almost 
naked men. The position of the new camp was admirably selected and 
well fortified, its easily defensible nature being one good reason why 
Howe did not attack it. Besides helping to prevent the movement of 
the British to the west, Valley Forge also obstructed the trade between 
Howe's forces and the farmers, thus threatening the vital subsistence 
of the redcoats and rendering their foraging to obtain necessary 
supplies extremely hazardous. In order to see that this hindering 
situation remained effective, Washington detached several bodies of his 
troops to the periphery of the Philadelphia area.   Morgan and 
his corps were placed on the west side of the Schuylkill River, with 
instructions to intercept all supplies found going to the city and 
to keep a close eye on the movements of the enemy. The headquarters 
of Morgan was on a farm, said to have been particularly well located 
so as to prevent the farmers nearby from trading with the British, a 
practice all too common to those who preferred to sell their produce for 
British gold rather than the virtually worthless Continental currency. 
In his dealings with offenders, however, Morgan was typically 
firm but just. For example, he captured some persons from York County, 
who with teams were taking to Philadelphia the furniture of a man 
who had just been released from prison through the efforts of his wife, 
and who apparently was helpless to prevent the theft of his household 
goods. Morgan took charge of the furniture and restored it to its 
thankful owners, but he let the culprits who had stolen it go free.

Morgan complained to Washington about the men detailed to him 
for scouting duty, most of them he said being useless. "They straggle 
at such a rate", he told the commander-in-chief, "that if the 
enemy were enterprising, they might get two from us, when we would take 
one of them, which makes me wish General Howe would go on, lest any 
incident happen to us".   If the hardships of the winter at 
Valley Forge were trying for healthy men, they were, of course, much 
more so for those not in good health. Daniel Morgan's rheumatic condition 
worsened with the increase of the cold and damp weather. He 
had braved the elements and the enemy, but the strain, aided by the winter, 
was catching up with him at last. Also, he was now forty-three 
years old. The mild activity of his command during the sojourn of the 
troops at Valley Forge could be handled by a subordinate, he felt, 
so like Henry Knox, equally loyal to Washington, who went to Boston 
at this time, Morgan received permission to visit his home in Virginia 
for several weeks. In his absence, the rifle regiment was under 
the command of Major Thomas Posey, another able Virginian. 
But Morgan did not leave before he had written a letter to a William 
Pickman in Salem, Massachusetts, apparently an acquaintance, praising 
Washington and saying that the slanders propagated about him were 
"opposed by the general current of the people **h to exalt General 
Gates at the expense of General Washington was injurious to the latter. 
If there be a disinterested patriot in America, 'tis General 
Washington, and his bravery, none can question".   It is doubtful 
if Morgan was able to take home much money to his wife and children, 
for his pay, as shown by the War Department Abstracts of early 
1778 was $75 a month as a colonel, and that apt to be delayed. He 
was shown a warm welcome regardless, and spent the time in Winchester 
recuperating from his ailment, enjoying his family and arranging his 
private affairs which were, of course, run down. His neighbors celebrated 
his return, even if it was only temporary, and Morgan was especially 
gratified by the quaint expression of an elderly friend, Isaac 
Lane, who told him, "A man that has so often left all that is dear 
to him, as thou hast, to serve thy country, must create a sympathetic 
feeling in every patriotic heart".   There must have been special 
feelings of joy and patriotism in the heart of Daniel Morgan too, 
when the news was received on April 30th of the recognition by France 
of the independence of the United States. His fellow Virginian, 
George Washington, had stated, "I believe no event was ever received 
with more heartfelt joy". The dreary camp at Valley Forge 
was turned into an arena of rejoicing. Even the dignified Washington 
indulged in a game of wickets with some children. His soldiers on the 
whole did not celebrate so mildly. On May 6th, Morgan, who had returned, 
received from Washington orders to "send out patrols under 
vigilant officers" to keep near the enemy. "The reason for this", 
the orders said, "is that the enemy may think to take advantage of 
the celebration of this day. The troops must have more than the common 
quantity of liquor, and perhaps there will be some little drunkenness 
among them".   Apparently no serious disorders resulted from 
the celebration, and within a few days, Morgan joined the force of 
Lafayette who now had command of some 2,000 men at Barren Hill, not 
far above Philadelphia on the Schuylkill. The Frenchman had been 
ordered to approach the enemy's lines, harass them and get intelligence 
of their movements. Interestingly enough, the order transmitted 
to Morgan through Alexander Hamilton also informed him that "A party 
of Indians will join the party to be sent from your command at Whitemarsh, 
and act with them". These were Oneida Indians. 
Washington evidently was anxious for Morgan to be cautious as well 
as aggressive, for on May 17th, 18th and 20th he admonished the leader 
of the riflemen-rangers to be on the alert. Obviously the commander-in-chief 
had confidence that Morgan would furnish him good intelligence 
too, for on the 23rd of May, he told Morgan that the British were 
prepared to move, perhaps in the night, and asked Morgan to have two 
of his best horses ready to dispatch to General Smallwood with the 
intelligence obtained. Meantime, however, this same General Smallwood 
seemed to be serving chivalry as well as the American army. Colonel 
Benjamin Ford wrote to Morgan from Wilmington that he understood 
a Mrs& Sanderson from Maryland had obtained permission from Smallwood 
to visit Philadelphia, and would return on May 26th, escorted 
by several officers from Maryland "belonging to the new levies 
in the British service". Ford urged Morgan to capture these men, 
who, he thought, might be disguised as Quakers or peasants. Morgan took 
the suggested steps, but when Mrs& Sanderson appeared, there was 
nobody with her but her husband, whom he promptly sent to headquarters 
to be questioned. But Morgan evidently reported matters of intelligence 
much more important to his commanding general. A letter of a 
few days later from Washington's aide to Morgan stated, "His Excellency 
is highly pleased with your conduct upon this occasion". 
For by now the original cause of the quarrel, Philip's seizure of 
Gascony, was only one strand in the spider web of French interests that 
overlay all western Europe and that had been so well and closely 
spun that the lightest movement could set it trembling from one end to 
the other. Even so, Edward's ambassadors can scarcely have foreseen 
that five years of unremitting work lay ahead of them before peace 
was finally made and that when it did come the countless embassies that 
left England for Rome during that period had very little to do with 
it.   It is hard not to lay most of the blame for their failures 
on the pope. Nogaret is hardly an impartial witness, and even he 
did 
not make his charges against Boniface until the latter was dead, but 
there is some truth in what he said and more in what he did not say. 
It was not merely a hunger for "money, gold and precious objects" 
that delayed the papal pronouncement that could have brought the war 
to an end; the pope was playing a dangerous game, with so many balls 
in the air at once that a misstep would bring them all about his ears, 
and his only hope was to temporize so that he could take advantage 
of every change in the delicate balance of European affairs. When the 
negotiations began, his quarrel with the king of France was temporarily 
in abeyance, and he had no intention of reviving it so long as there 
was hope that French money would come to pay the troops who, under 
Charles of Valois, 
the papal vicar of Tuscany, were so valuable in 
the crusade against the Colonna cardinals and their Sicilian allies. 
If his circumspection in regard to Philip's sensibilities went so 
far that he even refused to grant a dispensation for the marriage of 
Amadee's daughter, Agnes, to the son of the dauphin of Vienne- 
a truly peacemaking move according to thirteenth-century ideas, for Savoy 
and Dauphine were as usual fighting on opposite sides- for fear 
that he might seem to be favoring the anti-French coalition, he would 
certainly never take the far more drastic step of ordering the return 
of Gascony to Edward, even though, as he admitted to the English 
ambassadors, he had been advised that the original cession was invalid. 
On the other hand, he did not want to offend Edward either, and 
he found himself in a very difficult position. On the surface, the whole 
question was purely feudal. The French were now occupying Gascony 
and Flanders on the technical grounds that their rulers had forfeited 
them by a breach of the feudal contract. But Edward was invading 
Scotland for precisely the same reason, and his insubordinate vassal 
was the ally of the king of France. Boniface had to uphold the sacredness 
of the feudal contract at all costs, for it was only as suzerain 
of Sicily and of the Patrimony of Peter that he had any justification 
for his Italian wars, but in the English-Scottish-French triangle 
it was almost impossible for him to recognize the claims of any one 
of the contestants without seeming to invalidate those of the other 
two.   Because of these involvements in the matter at stake, Boniface 
lacked the impartiality that is supposed to be an essential qualification 
for the position of arbiter, and in retrospect that would 
seem to be 
sufficient reason why the English embassies to the Curia proved 
so fruitless. But when the situation was so complicated that even 
Nogaret, one of the principal actors in the drama, could misinterpret 
the pope's motives, it is possible that Othon and his companions, 
equally baffled, attributed their difficulties to a more immediate cause. 
This was Boniface's monumental tactlessness. "Tact", by 
its very derivation, implies that its possessor keeps in touch with other 
people, but the author of <Clericis Laicos> and <Unam Sanctam>, 
the wielder of the two swords, the papal sun of which the imperial 
moon was but a dim reflection, the peer of Caesar and vice-regent 
of Christ, was so high above other human beings that he had forgotten 
what they were like. He was a learned and brilliant man, one of the 
best jurists in Europe and with flashes of penetrating insight, and yet 
in his dealings with other people, particularly when he tried to be 
ingratiating, he was capable of an abysmal stupidity that can have come 
only from a complete incomprehension of human nature and human motives.

This lofty disregard for others was not shared by such men 
as Pierre Flotte and his associates, that "brilliant group of mediocre 
men", as Powicke calls them, who provided the brains for the 
French embassy that came to Rome under the nominal leadership of the 
archbishop of Narbonne, the duke of Burgundy, and the count of St&-Pol. 
They had risen from humble beginnings by their own diligence 
and astuteness, they were unfettered by the codes that bound nobles 
like Othon or even the older generation of clerks like Hotham, and 
they were working for an end that their opponents had never even visualized. 
Boniface was later to explain to the English that Robert 
of Burgundy and Guy de St&-Pol were easy enough to do business with; 
it was the clerks who caused the mischief and who made him say 
that the ruling passion of their race was covetousness and that in dealing 
with them he never knew whether he had to do with a Frenchman or 
with a devil. To the pope, head of the universal Church, to the duke 
of Burgundy, taking full advantage of his position on the borders 
of France and of the Empire, or to Othon, who found it quite natural 
that he should do homage to Edward for Tipperary and to the count 
of Savoy for Grandson, Flotte's outspoken nationalism was completely 
incomprehensible. And yet he made no pretense about it; when 
the pope, trying no doubt to appeal to his better nature, said to him, 
"You have already taken Normandy. Do you want to drive the king 
of England from all his overseas possessions"? the Frenchman's 
answer was a terse "Vous dites vrai". Loyal and unscrupulous, 
with a single-minded ambition to which he devoted all his energies, he 
outmatched the English diplomats time and time again until, by a kind 
of poetic justice, he fell at the battle of Courtrai, the victim of 
the equally nationalistic if less articulate Flemings.   The 
English, relying on a prejudiced arbiter and confronted with superior 
diplomatic skill, were also hampered in their negotiations by the events 
that were taking place at home. The Scots had found a new leader 
in William Wallace, and Edward's yearly expeditions across the Border 
called for evermounting taxes, which only increased his difficulties 
with the barons and the clergy. He was unable to send any more 
help to his allies on the Continent, and during the next few years many 
of them, left to resist French pressure unaided, surrendered to the 
inevitable and made their peace with Philip. The defeat and death 
of Adolf 
of Nassau at the hands of Albert of Habsburg also worked to 
the disadvantage of the English, for all the efforts to revive the 
anti-French coalition came to nothing when Philip made an alliance with 
the new king of the Romans.   These shifts in alliance and 
allegiance not only increased the difficulties confronting the English 
embassy as a whole, but also directly involved the two Savoyards, Amadee 
and Othon. In spite of the armistice negotiated by Amadee two 
years earlier, the war between Bishop Guillaume of Lausanne and Louis 
of Savoy was still going on, and although little is known about 
it, that little proves that it was yet another phase of the struggle 
against French expansion and was closely interwoven with the larger conflict. 
A second truce had been arbitrated in April, 1298, by Jean 
d'Arlay, lord of Chalon-sur-Saone, the most staunch of 
Edward's 
Burgundian allies, and these last were represented in the discussions 
at the Curia by Gautier de Montfaucon, Othon's neighbor and a 
member of the Vaudois coalition.   But although in many of these 
discussions Othon and Amadee might have been tempted to consider 
their own interests as well as those of the king, Edward's confidence 
in them was so absolute that they were made the acknowledged leaders 
of the embassy. Amadee may have owed this partly to his relationship 
with the king, but Othon, who at sixty seems still to have been a simple 
knight, merited his position solely by his own character and ability. 
The younger men, Vere, and Pembroke, who was also Edward's 
cousin and whose Lusignan blood gave him the swarthy complexion that 
caused Edward of Carnarvon's irreverent friend, Piers Gaveston, 
to nickname him "Joseph the Jew", were relatively new to the game 
of diplomacy, but Pontissara had been on missions to Rome before, 
and Hotham, a man of great learning, "jocund in speech, agreeable 
to meet, of honest religion, and pleasing in the eyes of all", and an 
archbishop to boot, was as reliable and experienced as Othon himself. 
But all the reports of this first embassy show that the two Savoyards 
were the heads of it, for they were the only ones who were empowered 
to swear for the king that he would abide by the pope's decision 
and who were allowed to appoint deputies in the event that one was unavoidably 
absent.   This also gave them the unpleasant duty of 
being spokesmen for the mission, and they could foresee that that would 
not be easy. Underneath all the high-sounding phrases of royal and 
papal letters and behind the more down-to-earth instructions to the envoys 
was the inescapable fact that Edward would have to desert his Flemish 
allies and leave them to the vengeance of their indignant suzerain, 
the king of France, in return for being given an equally free hand 
with the insubordinate Scots. This was a doubly bitter blow to the 
king. In the eyes of those who still cared for such things, it was 
a reflection on his honor, and it gave further grounds for complaint to 
his overtaxed subjects, who were already grumbling- although probably 
not in Latin- "Non est lex sana Quod regi sit mea lana". 
Bad relations between England and Flanders brought hard times to the 
shepherds scattered over the dales and downs as well as to the crowded 
Flemish cities, and while the English, so far, had done no more than 
grumble, Othon had seen what the discontent might lead to, for before 
he left the Low Countries the citizens of Ghent had risen in protest 
against the expense of supporting Edward and his troops, and the 
regular soldiers had found it unexpectedly difficult to put down the 
nasty little riot that ensued.   In all the talk of feudal rights, 
the knights and bishops must never forget the woolworkers, nor was 
it easy to do so, for all along the road to Italy they passed the Florentine 
pack trains going home with their loads of raw wool from England 
and rough Flemish cloth, the former to be spun and woven by the 
Arte della Lana and the latter to be refined and dyed by the Arte 
della Calimala with the pigment recently discovered in Asia Minor 
by one of their members, Bernardo Rucellai, the secret of which they 
jealously kept for themselves. These chatty merchants made amusing and 
instructive traveling companions, for their business took them to all 
four corners of the globe, and Florentine gossip had already reached 
a high stage of development as even a cursory glance at the <Inferno> 
will prove. A northern ambassador, willing to keep his mouth shut 
and his ears open, could learn a lot that would stand him in good stead 
at the Curia.   They had other topics of conversation, besides 
their news from courts and fairs, which were of interest to Othon, 
the builder of castles in Wales and churches in his native country. 
Behind him lay the Low Countries, where men were still completing 
the cathedrals that a later Florentine would describe as "a malediction 
of little tabernacles, one on top of the other, with so many pyramids 
and spires and leaves that it is a wonder they stand up at all, 
for they look as though they were made of paper instead of stone or marble"; 
the Low Countries, where the Middle Ages were to last for 
another two centuries and die out only when Charles the Bold of Burgundy 
met his first defeat in the fields and forests below the walls 
of Grandson. 
It usually turned out well for him because either he liked the right 
people or there were only a few wrong people in the town. Alfred wanted 
to invest in my father's hotel and advance enough money to build 
a larger place. It was a very tempting offer. My father would have done 
it if it hadn't been for my mother, who had a fear of being in debt 
to anyone- even Alfred Alpert.   In spite of his being well 
liked there were a few people who were very careful about Alfred. 
They had my mother's 
opinion of him: that he was too sharp or a little 
too good to be true. One of the people who was afraid of Alfred 
was his own brother, Lew. I don't know how and I don't know why 
but the two stores, the one in Margaretville and the one in Fleischmanns 
that had been set up as a partnership, were dissolved, separated 
from each other. Everything was all very friendly, except when it came 
to Harry, the youngest brother. Alfred, who was a good deal older 
than Harry, had treated him like a son, and when Harry decided to stay 
in business with Lew instead of going with Alfred, Alfred looked 
on the decision as a betrayal. From that day on he never spoke to Harry 
or to Lew, or to Lew's two boys, Mort and Jimmy. The six 
miles between the towns became an ocean and the Alperts became a family 
of strangers.   Time went on and everybody got older. I became 
fifteen, sixteen, then twenty, and still Tessie Alpert sat on the 
porch with a rose in her hair, and Alfred got richer and sicker with 
diabetes. It was in the spring of the year when he took to his bed and 
Tessie and Alfred found out that they didn't know each other. They 
were like two strangers. The store was their marriage, and when 
Alfred had to leave it there was nothing to hold them together. Tessie, 
everybody thought, was a strong woman, but she was only strong because 
she had Alfred to lean on. And when Alfred was forced into his 
bed, Tessie left the front porch of the store and sat at home, rocking 
in her rocker in the living room, staring out the window- the rose 
still in her hair. Tessie could do nothing for Alfred. She couldn't 
cook or clean or make him comfortable. Instead she waited for Alfred 
to get better and take care of her.   Spring was life- and 
Alfred Alpert in his sickroom was death. Alfred knew that, too. 
I remember him pointing out of the window and saying that he wished he 
could live to see another spring but that he wouldn't.   Alfred 
began to put his affairs in order, and he went about it like a man 
putting his things into storage. My father, who liked Alfred very much, 
was a constant visitor. One day Alfred told him that he had decided 
to leave everything to me. My father, a wise man, asked him not 
to. He knew Alfred liked me; if he wanted to leave me something let 
it be a trinket, nothing else. By leaving me everything he wouldn't 
be doing me a favor, my father told him, and he didn't want to see 
his daughter involved in a lawsuit. He didn't want Alfred to leave 
me trouble because that's all it would be, and Alfred understood.

Alfred was getting too sick to stay in his own home. The doctor 
wanted him in a hospital; the nearest one was forty miles away 
in Kingston. The day Alfred left his home and Fleischmanns he gave 
up the convictions of a lifetime. He sent me for Meltzer the Butcher, 
whom he wanted not as a friend but as a rabbi.   Meltzer knew 
why I had come for him. Solemnly he walked me back to Alfred's 
house without a word passing between us. He entered the house in silence, 
walked into Alfred's room, and closed the door behind him. I 
sat down to wait, and I watched Tessie Alpert, who hadn't moved 
or said a word but kept staring out of the window.   For a few minutes 
there was nothing to hear. Then Meltzer's voice, quiet, calm, 
strong, started the Kaddish, the prayer for the dead. I could hear 
Alfred's voice a few words behind Meltzer's like a counterpoint, 
punctuated by sobs of sorrow and resignation. There was a finality 
in the rhythm of the prayer- it was the end of a life, the end of hope, 
and the wondering if there would ever be another beginning.

Meltzer stayed with Alfred, and when the door opened they both came 
out. Alfred was dressed for his trip to the hospital. The car was 
waiting for him. Alfred, leaning on Meltzer, stopped for a minute to 
look at Tessie. She didn't turn away from the window. Alfred nodded 
a little nod and went out through the door.   Outside, his brother 
Harry was waiting for him- he had come to say good-bye. Alfred 
walked past him without a word and got into the car. Harry ran to 
the side of the car where Alfred was sitting and looked at him, begging 
him to speak. Alfred looked straight ahead. The car began to move 
and Harry ran after it crying, "Alfred! Alfred! Speak to me". 
But the car moved off and Alfred just looked straight ahead. Harry 
followed the car until it reached the main road and turned towards 
Kingston. He stood there watching until it had gone from his sight.

I went to visit Alfred in the Kingston Hospital a few times. 
The first time I went there he asked me to bring him water from 
Flagler's well- water that reminded him of his first days in the 
mountains- and before I came the next time I filled a five-gallon 
jug for him and brought it to the hospital. I don't think he ever 
got to drink any of it.   The jug stayed at the hospital and the 
water- what can happen to water?- it evaporated, disappeared, and 
came back to the earth as rain- maybe for another well or another 
stream or another Alfred Alpert. 

#12 "WHERE IS IT WRITTEN"?# 

Mr& Banks was always called Banks the Butcher until he left 
town and the shop passed over to Meltzer the Scholar who then became 
automatically Meltzer the Butcher. Meltzer was a boarder with the 
Banks family. He came to Fleischmanns directly from the boat that 
brought him to America from Russia. He was a learned man and a very 
gentle soul. He was filled with knowledge of the Bible and the Talmud. 
He knew the whyfores and the wherefores but he was weak, very weak, 
on the therefores. Banks the Butcher took Meltzer the Scholar 
as an apprentice and he made it very clear that a man of learning must 
be able to do more than just quote the Commentaries of the Talmud in 
order to live. So Meltzer learned a new trade from Banks, who supplied 
the town and the hotels with meat.   Banks had a family- 
a wife, a daughter, and a son. The daughter, Lilly, was a very good 
friend of mine and I always had hopes that someday she and Meltzer would 
find each other. They lived in the same house and it didn't seem 
to be such a hard 
thing to do, but the sad realities of Lilly's life 
and the fact that Meltzer didn't love her never satisfied my wishful 
thinking.   Banks the Butcher was a hard master and a hard 
father, a man who didn't seem to know the difference between the living 
flesh of his family and the hanging carcasses of his stock in trade. 
He treated both with equal indifference and with equal contempt; 
perhaps he was a little more sympathetic to the sides of beef that 
hung silently from his hooks.   Lilly Banks and I became friends. 
She was the opposite of everything she should have been- a positive 
pole in a negative home, a living reaction of warmth and kindness 
to the harsh reality of her father. And Lilly's whole family seemed 
to be an apology for Mr& Banks. Her brother Karl was a very gentle 
soul, her mother was a quiet woman who said little but who had hard, 
probing eyes. For every rude word of Mr& Banks's the family 
had five in apology.   Every chance I got I left the hotel to 
visit Lilly. I was free but she was bound to her duties that not even 
the coming of Meltzer lightened. She had to clean the glass on the 
display cases in the butcher shop, help her brother scrub the cutting 
tables with wire brushes, mop the floors, put down new sawdust on the 
floors and help check the outgoing orders. When these chores were 
finished, only then, was she allowed whatever freedom she could find.

I helped Lilly in the store. To me it was a game, to her it 
was the deadly seriousness of life. I wanted to help so that we could 
find time to play. And Lilly allowed me to help so that she could 
have her few little hours of escape.   When the work was finished, 
we would walk. The road past the butcher shop took us along the side 
of a stream. It ran north, away from the town and the people, through 
woods and past the nothingness of a graveyard.   Lilly preferred 
the loneliness of that walk. I would have liked the town and the 
busyness of its people but I always followed Lilly into the peace of 
the silent and unstaring road.   It wasn't hard to understand. 
To me Lilly was a fine and lovely girl. To people who didn't know 
her she was a gawky, badly dressed kid whose arms were too long, whose 
legs were a little too bony. She had the hips of a boy and a loose-jointed 
walk that reminded me of a string of beads strolling down the 
street. And she had the kind of crossed eyes that shocked. It was 
unexpected, unexpected because Lilly walked with her head bent down, 
down, and her mark of friendship was to look into your face. I accepted 
her crossed eyes as she accepted my childishness; childishness compared 
to her grown-up understanding that life was a punishment for as 
yet undisclosed sins. We were almost the same age, she was fifteen, 
I was twelve, and where I felt there was a life to look forward to Lilly 
felt she had had as much of it as was necessary.   When we 
went for our walks Lilly's brother would come along every once in 
a while. Karl was an almost exact copy of his father physically and it 
was strange to see the expected become the unexpected. This huge hulk 
played the guitar and he would take it along on our walks and play 
for us as we sat alone in the woods or by the stream. Karl played well 
and his favorite song was a Schubert lullaby. He spoke no German 
but he could sing it and the words of the song were the only ones he knew 
in a foreign language. The song, he said, was called "The Stream's 
Lullaby", and when he sang, "Gute ruh, Gute ruh, Mach't 
die augen zu" there was such longing and such simple sadness that 
it frightened me. Later, when I was older, I found the song was part 
of Schubert's <Die Scho^ne Mu^llerin>. And even hearing 
it in a concert hall surrounded by hundreds of people the words and 
the melody would make me a little colder and I would reach out for my 
husband's hand.   The brother and sister seemed to be a sort 
of mutual-aid society, a little fortress of kindness for each other in 
a hard world. I felt very flattered to be included in the protection 
of their company even though I had nothing to be protected from.

The turn of the century, or to be more precise, the two decades 
preceeding and following it, marks a great change in the history of 
early English scholarship. At the bottom of this change were great strides 
forward in the technical equipment and technical standards of the 
historian. In archaeology, for example, the contributions of Frederick 
Haverfield and Reginald Smith to the various volumes of the Victoria 
County Histories raised the discipline from the status of an 
antiquarian pastime to that of the most valuable single tool of the 
early English historian. And with the publication of E& T& Leeds' 
<Archaeology of the Anglo-Saxon Settlements> the student 
was presented with an organized synthesis of the archaeological data 
then known.   What was true for archaeology was also true of place-name 
studies. The value of place-names in the reconstruction of early 
English history had long been recognized. Place-names, in fact, 
had been extensively utilized for this purpose from the time of Camden 
onwards. Without a precise knowledge of Germanic philology, however, 
it is debatable whether their use was not more often a source of confusion 
and error than anything else. Even in the nineteenth century 
such accomplished philologists as Kemble and Guest were led into what 
now seem ludicrous errors because of their failure to recognize that 
modern forms of place names are not necessarily the result of logical 
philological development. It was therefore not until the publication 
of J&H& Round's "The Settlement of the South and East 
Saxons", and W&H& Stevenson's "Dr& Guest and the English 
Conquest of South Britain", that a scientific basis for place-name 
studies was established.   Diplomatic is another area for 
which the dawn of the twentieth century marks the beginning of modern 
standards of scholarship. Although because of the important achievements 
of nineteenth century scholars in the field of textual criticism 
the advance is not so striking as it was in the case of archaeology 
and place-names, the editorial principles laid down by Stevenson in 
his great edition of Asser and in his <Crawford Charters> were a 
distinct improvement upon those of his predecessors and remain unimproved 
upon today.   In sum, it can be said that the techniques and 
standards of present day have their origin at the turn of the century. 
And it is this, particularly the establishment of archaeology and 
place-name studies on a scientific basis, which are immediately pertinent 
to the Saxon Shore.   Almost inevitably, the first result 
of this technological revolution was a reaction against the methods and 
in many cases the conclusions of the Oxford school of Stubbs, Freeman 
and (particularly) Green regarding the nature of the Anglo-Saxon 
conquest of Britain. Even before the century was out the tide of 
reaction had set in. Charles Plummer in the introduction and notes to 
his splendid edition of Bede voiced some early doubts concerning the 
"elaborate superstructure" they raised up over the slim foundations 
afforded by the traditional narratives of the conquest. It was Plummer, 
in fact, who coined the much quoted remark: "Mr& Green 
indeed writes as if he had been present at the landing of the Saxons 
and had watched every step of their subsequent progress". Sir Henry 
Howorth, writing in 1898, put himself firmly in the Lappenburg-Kemble 
tradition by attacking the veracity of the West Saxon annals.

Early in the present century, W& H& Stevenson continued 
the attack with a savage article against Guest. Following him in varying 
degrees of scepticism were T&W& Shore, H&M& Chadwick, 
Thomas Hodgkin and F& G& Beck. By 1913, Ferdinand Lot 
could begin an article subtitled "<La conquete de la Grande-Bretagne 
par les Saxons>" with the words, "<Il est difficile aujourd 
'hui d'entretenir des illusions sur la valeur du recit traditionnel 
de la conquete de la Grande-Bretagne> **h". It is also worthy 
of note that Lot cited both Kemble and Lappenberg with favor in 
that article. It would seem that the wheel had turned full circle.

In fact, modern scholarly opinion in the main has not retreated 
all the way back to the destructive scepticism of the first half of the 
nineteenth century. Although one meets with occasional extremists like 
Zachrisson or, very recently, Arthur Wade-Evans the majority of 
scholars have taken a middle position between the extremes of scepticism 
and gullibility. Most now admit that Bede, Gildas, Nennius and 
the Anglo-Saxon Chronicles cannot be the infallible guides to early 
English history that Guest, Freeman and Green thought them to be. 
As R&H& Hodgkin has remarked: "The critical methods of 
the nineteenth century shattered most of this picturesque narrative. 
On 
the other hand, the consensus of opinion is that, used with caution 
and in conjunction with other types of evidence, the native sources still 
provide a valid rough outline for the English settlement of southern 
Britain. As Sir Charles Oman once said, "it is no longer fashionable 
to declare that we can say nothing certain about Old English 
origins".   Therefore, in one way Kemble and Lappenberg 
have been vindicated. Their conclusions concerning the untrustworthiness 
of the West Saxon annals, the confused chronology of Bede, the 
unreliability of the early positions of the Anglo-Saxon genealogies 
and the mythological elements contained in Nennius are now mostly accepted. 
Nevertheless, in another way modern historians still labor in 
the vineyard of the Oxford school. For it is their catastrophic concept 
of the Anglo-Saxon invasions rather than Kemble's gradualist 
approach which dominates the field. Despite the rejection of the traditional 
accounts on many points of detail, as late as 1948 it was still 
possible to postulate a massive and comparatively sudden (beginning 
in ca& 450) influx of Germans as the type of invasions.   At 
this point, of course, the issue has become complicated by a development 
unforeseen by Lappenberg and Kemble. They, however much they were 
in disagreement with the late Victorians over the method by which 
Britain was Germanized, agreed with them that the end result was the 
complete extinction of the previous Celtic population and civilization. 
But beginning, for all practical purposes, with Frederick Seebohm's 
<English Village Community> scholars have had to reckon 
with a theory involving institutional and agrarian continuity between 
Roman and Anglo-Saxon times which is completely at odds with the reigning 
concept of the Anglo-Saxon invasions. Against Seebohm formidable 
foes have taken the field, notably F& W& Maitland, <whose 
Domesday Book and Beyond> was written expressly for this purpose, 
and Sir Paul Vinogradoff whose <The Growth of the Manor> had 
a similar aim. Largely due to their efforts the catastrophic invasion-theory 
has maintained its position although Seebohm has always found 
supporters. H&L& Gray in his <English Field Systems> and 
Zachrisson's <Romans, Kelts and Saxons> defended in part the 
Seebohm thesis while at the present time H&P&R& Finberg and 
Gordon Copley seem to fall into the Celtic survivalist camp. This 
is nevertheless a minority view. Most scholars, while willing to accept 
a survival (revival?) of Celtic art forms and a considerable proportion 
of the Celtic population, reject any institutional legacy from 
pre-Anglo-Saxon Britain.   Therefore, it is plain that the 
clear distinctions of the nineteenth century are no longer with us. 
In the main stream of historical thinking is a group of scholars, H&M& 
Chadwick, R&H& Hodgkin, Sir Frank Stenton et al& 
who are in varying degrees sceptical of the native traditions of the conquest 
but who defend the catastrophic type of invasion suggested by 
them. They, in effect, have compromised the opposing positions of the 
nineteenth century. On the other side are the Celtic survivalists who 
have taken a tack divergent from both these schools of nineteenth century 
thought. As a group they should be favorable to a concept of gradual 
Germanic infiltration although the specialist nature of much of 
their work, e&g& Seebohm, Gray and Finberg, tends to obscure 
their sympathies. Those who do have occasion to deal with the invasions 
in a more general way, like T&W& Shore and Arthur Wade-Evans, 
are on the side of a gradual and often peaceful Germanic penetration 
into Britain. Wade-Evans, in fact, denies that there were any Anglo-Saxon 
invasions at all other than a minor Jutish foray in A&D& 
514.   Now omitting for a moment some recent developments 
we can say the Saxon Shore hypothesis of Lappenberg and Kemble has 
undergone virtual eclipse in this century. It is no longer possible 
to say that a sceptical attitude towards the received accounts of the 
invasions almost automatically produces a "shore occupied by" interpretation. 
Everyone is more or less sceptical and virtually no one has 
been willing to accept Lappenberg or Kemble's position on that 
point. One reason is, of course, that the new scepticism has been willing 
to maintain the general picture of the invasions as portrayed in 
the traditional sources. The few scholars who have adopted the "shore 
occupied by" interpretation, Howorth, Shore, and Wade-Evans, 
have all been Celtic survivalists. Moreover, they have done so in rather 
special circumstances.   The primary reason for the abandonment 
of the "shore occupied by" thesis has been the assimilation and 
accumulation of archaeological evidence, the most striking feature 
of early English studies in this century. Again omitting recent developments, 
E&T& 
Leeds' dictum of 1913 has stood unchallenged: "So far 
as archaeology is concerned, there is not the least warrant for the 
second (shore occupied by) of these theories". Even earlier Haverfield 
had come to the same conclusion. What they meant was that there 
was no evidence to show that the south and east coasts of Britain received 
Germanic settlers conspicuously earlier than some other parts of 
England. That is, there was no trace of Anglo-Saxons in Britain 
as early as the late third century, to which time the archaeological 
evidence for the erection of the Saxon Shore forts was beginning to 
point. In the face of a clear judgment from archaeology, therefore, it 
became impossible for a time for scholars to re-adopt the "shore settled 
by" theory.   In recent years, however, a wind of change 
seems to be blowing through early English historical circles. The 
great increase in the amount of archaeological activity, and therefore 
information, in the years immediately preceeding and following the Second 
World War has brought to light data which has changed the complection 
of the Saxon Shore dispute. Where there were none fifteen years 
ago, several scholars currently are edging their way cautiously towards 
the acceptance of the "shore occupied by" position. We must, 
therefore, have a look at the new archaeological material and re-examine 
the literary and place-name evidence which bears upon the problem. 
#@#

What exactly are we trying to prove? We know that the 
Saxon Shore was a phenonenon of late Roman defensive policy; in 
other words its existence belongs to the period of Roman Britain. So 
whenever the Romans finally withdrew from the island, the Saxon Shore 
disappeared in the first decade of the fifth century. We also know 
that the Saxon Shore as reflected in the <Notitia> was created 
as a part of the Theodosian reorganization of Britain (post-A&D& 
369). My argument is that there was no Saxon Shore prior to that 
time even though the forts had been in existence since the time of Carausius. 
Therefore, what we must prove or disprove is that there were 
Saxons, in the broad sense in which we must construe the word, in 
the area of the Saxon Shore at the time it was called the Saxon Shore. 
That is, we must find Saxons in East Anglia, Kent, Sussex and 
Hampshire in the last half of the fourth century.   The problem, 
in other words, is strictly a chronological one. In Gaul the Saxon 
element on its Saxon Shore was plainly visible because there the 
Saxons were an intrusive element in the population. In Britain, obviously, 
the archaeological and place-name characteristics of the Saxon 
Shore region are bound to be Saxon. It is a matter of trying to 
sort out an earlier fourth-century Saxon element from the later, fifth-century 
mainstream of Anglo-Saxon invasions. This, naturally, will 
be difficult to do since both the archaeological and place-name evidence 
in this period, with some fortunate exceptions, is insufficient 
for precise chronological purposes.   It might be well to consider 
the literary evidence first because it can provide us with an answer 
to one important question; namely, is the idea that there were Saxon 
mercenaries in England at all reasonable? 
To do so, something was necessary beyond volunteering because there was 
little glamour or romance in the European war; it meant instead 
hardship, dirt, and death.   Baker gave Leonard Wood credit for 
the initiation of the draft of soldiers; from the General's idea 
a chain reaction occurred. Wood took the proposal to Chief of Staff 
Hugh L& Scott, who passed it on to Baker a month before the actual 
declaration of war against Germany. The Secretary of War gave 
his assent after studying the history of the draft in the American 
Civil War as well as the British volunteer system in World War /1,. 
He concluded that selective service would not only prevent the disorganization 
of essential war industries but would avoid the undesirable 
moral effects of the British reliance on enlistment only- "where 
the feeling of the people was whipped into a frenzy by girls pinning 
white feathers on reluctant young men, orators preaching hate of the 
Germans, and newspapers exaggerating enemy outrages to make men enlist 
out of motives of revenge and retaliation". Baker took the plan 
to Wilson who said: "Baker, this is plainly right on any ground. 
Start to prepare the necessary legislation so that if I am obliged 
to go to Congress the bills will be ready for immediate consideration". 
The result was that by secret agreement draft machinery was actually 
ready long before the country knew that the device was to take 
the place of the volunteering method which Theodore Roosevelt favored. 
Before the Draft Act was passed Baker had confidentially briefed 
governors, sheriffs, and prospective draft board members on the administration 
of the measure- and the confidence was kept so well that 
only one newspaper learned what was going on. It was Baker, working 
through Provost Marshal Enoch Crowder and Major Hugh S& ("Old 
Ironpants") Johnson, who arranged for a secret printing by the 
million of selective service blanks- again before the Act was passed- 
until corridors in the Government Printing Office were full 
and the basement of the Washington Post Office was stacked to the ceiling. 
General Crowder proposed that Regular Army officers select 
the draftees in cities and towns throughout the nation; it was Baker 
who thought of lessening the shock, which conscription always brings 
to a country, by substituting "Greetings from your neighbors" for 
the recruiting sergeant, and registration in familiar voting places 
rather than at military installations.   Even so, the Draft Act 
encountered rough sledding in its progress through the Congress. Democratic 
Speaker Champ Clark saw little difference between a conscript 
and a convict. Democrat Stanley H& Dent, Chairman of the 
House Military Affairs Committee, declined to introduce the bill. 
Democratic Floor Leader Claude Kitchin would have no part of the 
measure. In the judgment of Chief of Staff Scott it was ironic that 
the draft policy of a Democratic President, aimed at Germany, had 
to be pushed through the House of Representatives by the ranking minority 
member of the Military Affairs Committee- a Republican Jew 
born in Germany! He was Julius Kahn for whom the Chief of Staff 
thought no honor could be too great. After Kahn's death in 1924 
Scott wrote: "May he rest in peace with the eternal gratitude 
of his adopted country".   In spite of powerful opposition the 
Draft Act finally passed Congress on May 17, 1917. In early June 
ten million young men registered by name and number. The day passed 
without incident in spite of the warning of Senator James A& Reed 
of Missouri: "Baker, you will have the streets of our American 
cities running with blood on registration day". On July 20, the 
first drawing of numbers occurred in the Senate Office Building before 
a distinguished group of congressmen and high Army officers. Secretary 
of War Baker, blindfolded, put his hand into a large glass 
bowl and drew the initial number of those to be called. It was 258. 
A man in Mississippi wired: "Thanks for drawing 258- that's 
me". He was the first of 2,800,000 called to the Army through the 
selective service system. ##

It was one thing to call men to the 
colors; it was another to house, feed, and train them. The existing 
Army posts were wholly inadequate. In a matter of months the War 
Department built thirty-two camps, each one accommodating fifty thousand 
men- sixteen were under canvas in the South and sixteen with frame 
structures in the North. It was a gargantuan task; a typical 
cantonment in the North had twelve hundred buildings, an electric-sewer-water 
system, and twenty-five miles of roads. At Camp Taylor in Kentucky 
a barracks was built in an hour and a half from timber that had 
been standing in Mississippi forests one week before. The total 
operation 
was a construction project comparable in magnitude with the Panama 
Canal, but in 1917 time was in short supply; in three months 
the Army spent three-quarters as much as had been expended on the "big 
Ditch" in ten years.   In later years Josephus Danielswas 
to 
claim that World War /1, was the first in American history in which 
there was great concern for both the health and morals of our soldiers. 
It was the first American war in which the death rate from disease 
was lower than that from battle, due to the provision of trained 
medical personnel (of the 200,000 officers, 42,000 were physicians), compulsory 
vaccination, rigorous camp sanitation, and adequate hospital 
facilities. To the middle of September 1918, there had been fewer than 
10,000 deaths from disease in the new army. This enviable record 
would have been maintained but for a great and unexpected disaster which 
struck 
the world with murderous stealth. It was the influenza pandemic 
of 1918-19. The malady was popularly known as the "Spanish flu" 
from the alleged locale of its origin. The world-wide total of deaths 
from "Spanish flu" was around twenty million; in the United 
States 300,000 succumbed to it. In mid-September 1918, the influenza-pneumonia 
pandemic swept through every American military camp; during 
the eight-week blitz attack 25,000 soldiers died from the disease 
and the death rate (formerly 5 per year per 1,000 men) increased almost 
fifty times to 4 <per week> per 1,000 men. In spite of this catastrophe 
the final mortality figure from disease in the American Army 
during World War /1, was 15 per 1,000 per year, contrasted with 
110 per 1,000 per year in the Mexican War, and 65 in the American Civil 
War.   Both Secretary of War Baker and Secretary of Navy 
Daniels devoted much time and effort to the problem of providing 
reasonably normal and wholesome activities in camp for the millions of 
men who had been removed from their home environment. Their policy 
ran counter to the traditional idea that a good fighter was usually a 
libertine, and that in sex affairs "God-given passion" was a proof 
of manliness. Baker moved first; six days after war was declared 
he appointed Raymond Fosdick chairman of the Commission on Training 
Camp Activities (the ~CTCA). Fosdick, a brother of minister 
Harry Emerson Fosdick, was a graduate of Princeton, and a member of 
Phi Beta Kappa and the American Philosophical Association. His 
assignment was not a new one because Baker had sent him to the Mexican 
border in 1916 to investigate lurid newspaper stories about lack 
of discipline, drunkenness, and venereal disease in American military 
camps. Fosdick had found the installations surrounded by a battery of 
saloons and houses of prostitution, with <filles de joie> from all 
over the country flocking to San Antonio, Laredo, and El Paso to 
"woman the cribs". He also ascertained that many officers were 
indifferent to the problem, including Commanding General Frederick 
Funston who gave Fosdick the nickname of "Reverend". On the basis 
of the long chronicle of military history Funston and his brethren 
assumed that the issue was insoluble and that anyone interested in a 
mission like Fosdick's was an impractical idealist or a do-gooder.

During the brief Mexican venture Fosdick's report to the 
Secretary recommended a definite stand by the War Department against 
the saloon and the excesses of prostitution. The problem involved military 
necessity as much as morality, for in pre-penicillin days venereal 
disease was a crippling disability. Fosdick insisted that a strong 
word was needed from Washington, and it was immediately forthcoming. 
Baker put the "cribs" and the saloons out of bounds, ordered the 
co-operation of military officers with local law authorities, and told 
communities that the troops would be moved unless wholesome conditions 
were restored. Both Baker and Fosdick knew that a substitute was 
necessary, that a <verboten> approach was not the real answer. They 
were aware that soldiers went to town, in more ways than one, because 
of the monotony of camp life, to find the only release available in 
the absence of movies, reading rooms, and playing fields with adequate 
athletic equipment. Both knew that when trains stopped at Texan crossroads 
bored soldiers would sometimes enter to ask the passengers if 
they had any reading material to spare, even a newspaper. There was 
no time in the short Mexican encounter to evolve a solution but the 
area provided a proving ground for new departures in the near future.

When the United States entered the First World War Baker 
made certain that the Draft Act of 1917 prohibited the sale of liquor 
to men in uniform and that it provided for broad zones around the camps 
in which prostitution was outlawed. Even so Fosdick, as the new 
Chairman of the Commission on Training Camp Activities, encountered 
strong and vociferous opposition. New Orleans had a notorious red-light 
district extending over twenty-eight city blocks, and the business-minded 
mayor of the city journeyed to Washington to present the 
case for "the God-given right of men to be men". In Europe, Premier 
Clemenceau, showing his animal proclivities as the "Tiger of 
France", asked Pershing by letter for the creation of special houses 
where the sexual desires of American men could be satisfied. When 
Fosdick showed the letter to Baker his negative response was: "For 
God's sake, Raymond, don't show this to the President or 
he'll stop the war". Ultimately Fosdick's "Fit to fight" 
slogan swept across the country and every well-known red-light district 
in the United States was closed, a hundred and ten of them. The 
result was that the rate of venereal disease in the American Army 
was the lowest in our military history.   This was the negative 
side of the situation. Affirmatively Baker worked on the premise that 
"young men spontaneously prefer to be decent, and that opportunities 
for wholesome recreation are the best possible cure for irregularities 
in conduct which arise from idleness and the baser temptations". 
The wholesome activities were to be provided by many organizations including 
the ~YMCA, the Knights of Columbus, the Jewish Welfare 
Board, the American Library Association, and the Playground and 
Recreation Association- private societies which voluntarily performed 
the job that was taken over almost entirely by the Special Services 
Division of the Army itself in World War /2,. Over these 
voluntary agencies, in 1917-18, the ~CTCA served as a co-ordinating 
body in carrying out what <Survey> called "the most stupendous 
piece of social work in modern times". Under Fosdick the first 
executive officer of the ~CTCA was Richard Byrd, whose name in 
later years was to become synonymous with activities at the polar antipodes. 
From the point of view of popularity the best-known member of 
the Commission was Walter Camp, the Yale athlete whose sobriquet 
was "the father of American football". He was placed in charge of 
athletics, and among other things adapted the type of calisthenics known 
as the daily dozen. The ~CTCA program of activities was profuse: 
William Farnum and Mary Pickford on the screen, Elsie Janis 
and Harry Lauder on the stage, books provided by the American 
Library Association, full equipment for games and sports- except that 
no "bones" were furnished for the all-time favorite pastime played 
on any floor and known as "African golf". The ~CTCA distributed 
a khaki-bound songbook that provided the impetus for spirited 
renditions of the selections found therein, plus a number of others 
whose lyrics were more earthy- from "Johnny Get Your Gun" to 
"Keep the Home Fires Burning" to "Mademoiselle from Armentieres". 
In the imagination of the nineteenth century the Greek tragedians and 
Shakespeare stand side by side, their affinity transcending all the 
immense contrarieties of historical circumstance, religious belief, and 
poetic form.   We no longer use the particular terms of Lessing 
and Victor Hugo. But we abide by their insight. The word "tragedy" 
encloses for us in a single span both the Greek and the Elizabethan 
example. The sense of relationship overreaches the historical 
truth that Shakespeare may have known next to nothing of the actual 
works of Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides. It transcends the 
glaring fact that the Elizabethans mixed tragedy and comedy whereas 
the Greeks kept the two modes severely distinct. It overcomes our emphatic 
awareness of the vast difference in the shape and fabric of the 
two languages and styles of dramatic presentation. The intimations of 
a related spirit and ordering of human values are stronger than any 
sense of disparity. Comparable visions of life are at work in <Antigone> 
and <Romeo and Juliet>. We see at once what Victor Hugo 
means when he calls Macbeth a northern scion of the house of Atreus. 
Elsinore seems to lie in a range of Mycenae, and the fate of Orestes 
resounds in that of Hamlet. The hounds of hell search out their 
quarry in Apollo's sanctuary as they do in the tent of Richard /3,. 
Oedipus and Lear attain similar insights by virtue of similar blindness. 
It it not between Euripides and Shakespeare that the western 
mind turns away from the ancient tragic sense of life. It is after 
the late seventeenth century. I say the late seventeenth century because 
Racine (whom Lessing did not really know) stands on the far side 
of the chasm. The image of man which enters into force with Aeschylus 
is still vital in <Phedre> and <Athalie>.   It is the 
triumph of rationalism and secular metaphysics which marks the point 
of no return. Shakespeare is closer to Sophocles than he is to Pope 
and Voltaire. To say this is to set aside the realness of time. But 
it is true, nevertheless. The modes of the imagination implicit in 
Athenian tragedy continued to shape the life of the mind until the age 
of Descartes and Newton. It is only then that the ancient habits 
of feeling and the classic orderings of material and psychological experience 
were abandoned. With the <Discours de la methode> and the 
<Principia> the things undreamt of in Horatio's philosophy seem 
to pass from the world.   In Greek tragedy as in Shakespeare, 
mortal actions are encompassed by forces which transcend man. The reality 
of Orestes entails that of the Furies; the Weird Sisters wait 
for the soul of Macbeth. We cannot conceive of Oedipus without a 
Sphinx, nor of Hamlet without a Ghost. The shadows cast by the personages 
of Greek and Shakespearean drama lengthen into a greater darkness. 
And the entirety of the natural world is party to the action. 
The thunderclaps over the sacred wood at Colonus and the storms in 
<King Lear> are caused by more than weather. In tragedy, lightning 
is a messenger. But it can no longer be so once Benjamin Franklin 
(the incarnation of the new rational man) has flown a kite to it. The 
tragic stage is a platform extending precariously between heaven and 
hell. Those who walk on it may encounter at any turn ministers of grace 
or damnation. <Oedipus> and <Lear> instruct us how little of 
the world belongs to man. Mortality is the pacing of a brief and dangerous 
watch, and to all sentinels, whether at Elsinore or on the battlements 
at Mycenae, the coming of dawn has its breath of miracle. It 
banishes the night wanderers to fire or repose. But at the touch of 
Hume and Voltaire the noble or hideous visitations which had haunted 
the mind since Agamemnon's blood cried out for vengeance, disappeared 
altogether or took tawdry refuge among the gaslights of melodrama. 
Modern roosters have lost the art of crowing restless spirits back to 
Purgatory.   In Athens, in Shakespeare's England, and at 
Versailles, the hierarchies of worldly power were stable and manifest. 
The wheel of social life spun around the royal or aristocratic centre. 
From it, spokes of order and degree led to the outward rim of the 
common man. Tragedy presumes such a configuration. Its sphere is that 
of royal courts, dynastic quarrels, and vaulting ambitions. The same 
metaphors of swift ascent and calamitous decline apply to Oedipus 
and Macbeth because they applied also to Alcibiades and Essex. And 
the fate of such men has tragic relevance because it is public. Agamemnon, 
Creon, and Medea perform their tragic actions before the eyes 
of the <polis>. Similarly the sufferings of Hamlet, Othello, 
or Phedre engage the fortunes of the state. They are enacted at the 
heart of the body politic. Hence the natural setting of tragedy is the 
palace gate, the public square, or the court chamber. Greek and Elizabethan 
life and, to a certain extent, the life of Versailles shared 
this character of intense "publicity". Princes and factions clashed 
in the open street and died on the open scaffold.   With the 
rise to power of the middle class the centre of gravity in human affairs 
shifted from the public to the private. The art of Defoe and Richardson 
is founded on an awareness of this great change. Heretofore 
an action had possessed the breadth of tragedy only if it involved high 
personages and if it occurred in the public view. Behind the tragic 
hero stands the chorus, the crowd, or the observant courtier. In the 
eighteenth century there emerges for the first time the notion of a 
private tragedy (or nearly for the first time, there having been a small 
number of Elizabethan domestic tragedies such as the famous <Arden 
of Feversham>). In <La Nouvelle-Heloi^se> and <Werther> 
tragedy is made intimate. And private tragedy became the chosen ground 
not of drama, but of the new, unfolding art of the novel. 
The novel was not only the presenter of the new, secular, rationalistic, 
private world of the middle class. It served also as a literary form 
exactly appropriate to the fragmented audience of modern urban culture. 
I have said before how difficult it is to make any precise statements 
with regard to the character of the Greek and Elizabethan public. 
But one major fact seems undeniable. Until the advent of rational 
empiricism the controlling habits of the western mind were symbolic 
and allegoric. Available evidence regarding the natural world, the 
course of history, and the varieties of human action were translated 
into imaginative designs or mythologies. Classic mythology and Christianity 
are such architectures of the imagination. They order the manifold 
levels of reality and moral value along an axis of being which 
extends from brute matter to the immaculate stars. There had not yet 
supervened between understanding and expression the new languages of 
mathematics and scientific formulas. The poet was by definition a realist, 
his imaginings and parables being natural organizations of reality. 
And in these organizations certain primal notions played a radiant 
part, radiant both in the sense of giving light and of being a pole 
toward which all perspectives converge. I mean such concepts as the presence 
of the supernatural in human affairs, the sacraments of grace 
and divine retribution, the idea of preordainment (the oracle over Oedipus, 
the prophecy of the witches to Macbeth, or God's covenant with 
His people in <Athalie>). I refer to the notion that the structure 
of society is a microcosm of the cosmic design and that history 
conforms to patterns of justice and chastisement as if it were a morality 
play set in motion by the gods for our instruction.   These 
conceptions and the manner in which they were transposed into poetry or 
engendered by poetic form are intrinsic to western life from the time 
of Aeschylus to that of Shakespeare. And although they were, as I 
have indicated, under increasing strain at the time of Racine, they 
are still alive in his theatre. They are the essential force behind 
the conventions of tragedy. They are as decisively present in the <Oresteia> 
and <Oedipus> as in <Macbeth, King Lear>, and <Phedre>.

After the seventeenth century the audience ceased to 
be an organic community to which these ideas and their attendant habits 
of figurative language would be natural or immediately familiar. Concepts 
such as grace, damnation, purgation, blasphemy, or the chain of 
being, which are everywhere implicit in classic and Shakespearean tragedy, 
lose their vitality. They become philosophic abstractions of 
a private and problematic relevance, or mere catchwords in religious customs 
which had in them a diminishing part of active belief. After Shakespeare 
the master spirits of western consciousness are no longer 
the blind seers, the poets, or Orpheus performing his art in the face 
of hell. They are Descartes, Newton, and Voltaire. And their chroniclers 
are not the dramatic poets but the prose novelists.   The 
romantics were the immediate inheritors of this tremendous change. 
They were not yet prepared to accept it as irremediable. Rousseau's 
primitivism, the anti-Newtonian mythology of Blake, Coleridge's 
organic metaphysics, Victor Hugo's image of the poets as the Magi, 
and Shelley's "unacknowledged legislators" are related elements 
in the rear-guard action fought by the romantics against the new 
scientific rationalism. From this action sprang the idea of somehow uniting 
Greek and Shakespearean drama into a new total form, capable 
of restoring to life the ancient moral and poetic responses. The dream 
of achieving a synthesis between the Sophoclean and the Shakespearean 
genius inspired the ambitions of poets and composers from the time 
of Shelley and Victor Hugo to that of Bayreuth. It could not really 
be fulfilled. The conventions into which the romantics tried to breath 
life no longer corresponded to the realities of thought and feeling. 
But the attempt itself produced a number of brilliant works, and 
these form a transition from the early romantic period to the new age 
of Ibsen and Chekhov. ##

The wedding of the Hellenic to the northern 
genius was one of the dominant motifs in Goethe's thought. His 
Italian journey was a poet's version of those perennial thrusts 
across the Alps of the German emperors of the Middle Ages. The dream 
of a descent into the gardens of the south always drew German ambitions 
toward Rome and Sicily. Goethe asks in <Wilhelm Meister> 
whether we know the land where the lemon trees flower, and the light 
of the Mediterranean glows through <Torquato Tasso> and the <Roman 
Elegies>. Goethe believed that the Germanic spirit, with its 
grave strength but flagrant streaks of brutality and intolerance, should 
be tempered with the old sensuous wisdom and humanism of the Hellenic. 
On the narrower ground of poetic form, he felt that in the drama 
of the future the Greek conception of tragic fate should be joined to 
the Shakespearean vision of tragic will. The wager between God and 
Satan brings on the destiny of Faust, but Faust assumes his role 
voluntarily.   The third Act of <Faust> /2, is a formal celebration 
of the union between the Germanic and the classic, between 
the spirit of Euripides and that of romantic drama. The motif of Faust's 
love for Helen of Troy goes back to the sources of the Faustian 
legend. It tells us of the ancient human desire to see the highest 
wisdom joined to the highest sensual beauty. There can be no greater 
magic than to wrest from death her in whom the flesh was all, in whom 
beauty was entirely pure because it was entirely corruptible. It is 
thus that the brightness of Helen passes through Marlowe's <Faustus>. 
Goethe used the fable to more elaborate ends. Faust rescuing 
Helen from Menelaus' vengeance is the genius of renaissance Europe 
restoring to life the classic tradition. The necromantic change from 
the palace at Sparta to Faust's Gothic castle directs us to the 
aesthetic meaning of the myth- the translation of antique drama into 
Shakespearean and romantic guise.   This translation, or rather 
the fusion of the two ideals, creates the <Gesamtkunstwerk>, 
the "total art form". 
The Bishop of Gloucester described the elder Thomas in 1577 as the 
richest recusant in his diocese, worth five hundred pounds a year in 
lands and goods. When Quiney and William Parsons wrote to Greville 
in 1593 asking his consent in the election for bailiff, they sent the 
letter to Mr& William Sawnders, attendant on the worshipful Mr& 
Thomas Bushell at Marston. Mr& Bushell was mentioned in 1602 
in the will of Joyce Hobday, widow of a Stratford glover. Thomas 
the elder married twice, had seventeen children, and died in 1615. His 
daughter Elinor married Quiney's son Adrian in 1613, and his son 
Henry married Mary Lane of Stratford in 1609. His son Thomas, 
aged fifteen when he entered Oxford in 1582, married as his first wife 
Margaret, sister of Sir Edward Greville. Bridges, a son by his 
second wife, was christened at Pebworth in 1607, but Thomas the younger 
was living at Packwood two years later and sold Broad Marston 
manor in 1622. A third Thomas Bushell (1594-1674), "much loved" 
by Bacon, called himself "the Superlative Prodigall" in <The 
First Part of Youths Errors> (1628) and became an expert on silver 
mines and on the art of running into debt.   Edward Greville, 
born about 1565, had inherited Milcote on the execution of his father 
Lodowick for murder in 1589. He refused his consent to the election 
of Quiney as bailiff in 1592, but gave it at the request of the 
recorder, his cousin Sir Fulke Greville. The corporation entertained 
him for dinner at Quiney's house in 1596/7, with wine and sugar 
sent by the bailiff, Sturley. At Milcote on November 3, 1597, the 
aldermen asked him to support their petition for a new charter. Sturley 
wrote to Quiney that Sir Edward "gave his allowance and liking 
thereof, and affied unto us his best endeavour, so that his rights be 
preserved", and that "Sir Edward saith we shall not be at any 
fault for money for prosecuting the cause, for himself will procure it 
and lay it down for us for the time". Greville proposed Quiney as 
the fittest man "for the following of the cause and to attend him in 
the matter", and at his suggestion the corporation allowed Quiney 
two shillings a day. "If you can firmly make the good knight sure 
to pleasure our Corporation", Sturley wrote, "besides that ordinary 
allowance for your diet you shall have @20 for recompence".

In his letter mentioning Shakespeare on January 24, 1597/8, Sturley 
asked Quiney especially that "theare might [be] bi Sir Ed& 
Grev& some meanes made to the Knightes of the Parliament for 
an ease and discharge of such taxes and subsedies wherewith our towne 
is like to be charged, and I assure u I am in great feare and doubte 
bi no meanes hable to paie. Sir Ed& Gre& is gonne to Brestowe 
and from thence to Lond& as I heare, who verie well knoweth our estates 
and wil be willinge to do us ani good". The knights for Warwickshire 
in this parliament, which ended its session on February 9, 
were Fulke Greville (the poet) and William Combe of Warwick, as Fulke 
Greville and Edward Greville had been in 1593. The corporation 
voted on September 27, 1598, that Quiney should ride to London about 
the suit to Sir John Fortescue, chancellor of the Exchequer, 
for discharging of the tax and subsidy. He had been in London for several 
weeks when he wrote to Shakespeare on October 25. Sturley on 
November 4 answered a letter from Quiney written on October 25 which 
imported, wrote Sturley, "that our countriman **f **f Shak& would 
procure us monei: which I will like of as I shall heare when wheare 
+ howe: and I prai let not go that occasion if it mai sort to 
ani indifferent condicions. Allso that if monei might be had for 30 
or **f a lease +c& might be procured". Sturley quoted Quiney as 
having written on November 1 that if he had "more monei presente much 
might be done to obtaine our Charter enlargd, ij& faires more, with 
tole of corne, bestes, and sheepe, and a matter of more valewe then 
all that". Sturley thought that this matter might be "the rest 
of the tithes and the College houses and landes in our towne". He 
suggested offering half to Sir Edward, fearing lest "he shall thinke 
it to good for us and procure it for himselfe, as he served us the 
last time". This refers to what had happened after the Earl of Warwick 
died in 1590, when the town petitioned Burghley for the right to 
name the vicar and schoolmaster and other privileges but Greville bought 
the lordship for himself. Sturley's allusion probably explains 
why Greville took out the patent in the names of Best and Wells, 
for Sir Anthony Ashley described Best as "a scrivener within Temple 
Bar, that deals in many matters for my L& Essex" through Sir 
Gelly Merrick, especially in "causes that he would not be known 
of".   Adrian Quiney wrote to his son Richard on October 
29 and again perhaps the next day, since the bearer of the letter, the 
bailiff, was expected to reach London on November 1. In his second 
letter the old mercer advised his son "to bye some such warys as yow 
may selle presentlye with profet. yff yow bargen with **f sha **h 
[so in the ~MS] or Receave money ther or brynge your money home 
yow maye see howe knite stockynges be sold ther ys gret byinge of them 
at Aysshom **h. wherefore I thynke yow maye doo good yff yow can have 
money". This seems to refer, not to the loan Richard had asked 
for, but to a proposed bargain with Shakespeare.   Richard Quiney 
the younger, a schoolboy of eleven, wrote a letter in Latin asking 
his father to buy copybooks ("<chartaceos libellos>") for him 
and his brother. His mother Bess, who could not write herself, reminded 
her husband through Sturley to buy the apron he had promised her 
and "a suite of hattes for 5 boies the yongst lined + trimmed with silke" 
(for John, only a year old). A letter signed "Isabell Bardall" 
entreated "Good Cozen" Quiney to find her stepson Adrian, 
son of George Bardell, a place in London with some handicraftsman. 
William Parsons and William Walford, drapers, asked Quiney to 
see to business matters in London. Daniel Baker deluged his "Unckle 
Quyne" with requests to pay money for him to drapers in Watling 
Street and at the Two Cats in Canning Street. His letter of 
October 26 named two of the men about whom Quiney had written to Shakespeare 
the day before. Baker wrote: "I tooke order with **f E& 
Grevile for the payment of Ceartaine monei beefore his going towardes 
London. + synce I did write unto him to dessier him to paie **f 
for mee which standeth mee greatly uppon to have paide. + **f more 
**f peeter Rowswell 
tooke order with his master to paie for mee". He 
asked Quiney to find out whether the money had been paid and, if not, 
to send to the lodging of Sir Edward and entreat him to pay what 
he owed. Baker added: "I pray you delivre these inclosed Letters 
And Comend mee to **f Rychard mytton whoe I know will ffreind 
mee for the payment of this monei". Further letters in November mention 
that Sir Edward paid forty pounds.   Stratford's petition 
to the queen declared that two great fires had burnt two hundred 
houses in the town, with household goods, to the value of twelve thousand 
pounds. The chancellor of the Exchequer wrote on the petition: 
"in myn opinion it is very resonable and conscionable for hir ma<ies>tie 
to graunt in relief of this towne twise afflicted and almost wasted 
by fire". The queen agreed on December 17, a warrant was signed 
on January 27, and the Exchequer paid Quiney his expenses on February 
27, 1598/9. He listed what he had spent for "My own diet in 
London eighteen weeks, in which I was sick a month; my mare at coming 
up 14 days; another I bought there to bring me home 7 weeks; 
and I was six days going thither and coming homewards; all which 
cost me at the least @20". He was allowed forty-four pounds in all, 
including fees to the masters of requests, Mr& Fanshawe of the 
Exchequer, the solicitor general, and other officials and their clerks. 
If he borrowed money from Shakespeare or with his help, he would 
now have been able to repay the loan.   Since more is known about 
Quiney than about any other acquaintance of Shakespeare in Stratford, 
his career may be followed to its sudden end in 1602. During 1598 
and 1599 he made "manye Guiftes of myne owne provision bestowed uppon 
Cowrtiers + others for the better effectinge of our suites in hande". 
He was in London "searching records for our town's causes" 
in 1600 with young Henry Sturley, the assistant schoolmaster. When 
Sir Edward Greville enclosed the town commons on the Bancroft, 
Quiney and others leveled his hedges on January 21, 1600/1, and were 
charged with riot by Sir Edward. He also sued them for taking toll 
of grain at their market. Accompanied by "Master Greene our solicitor" 
(Thomas Greene of the Middle Temple, Shakespeare's "cousin"), 
Quiney tried to consult Sir Edward Coke, attorney general, 
and gave money to a clerk and a doorkeeper "that we might have 
access to their master for his counsel **h butt colde nott have him 
att Leasure by the reason of thees trobles" (the Essex rising on February 
8). He set down that "I gave **f Greene a pynte of muskadell 
and a roll of bread that last morning I went to have his company 
to Master Attorney". After returning to Stratford he drew up a 
defense 
of the town's right to toll corn and the office of collecting it, 
and his list of suggested witnesses included his father and Shakespeare's 
father. No one, he wrote, took any corn of Greville's, for 
his bailiff of husbandry "swore a greate oathe thatt who soe came 
to put hys hande into hys sackes for anye corne shuld leave hys hande 
be hynde hym". Quiney was in London again in June, 1601, and in 
November, when he rode up, as Shakespeare must often have done, by way 
of Oxford, High Wycombe, and Uxbridge, and home through Aylesbury 
and Banbury.   After Quiney was elected bailiff in September, 
1601, without Greville's approval, Greene wrote him that Coke 
had promised to be of counsel for Stratford and had advised "that 
the office of bayly may be exercised as it is taken upon you, (**f Edwardes 
his consent not beinge hadd to the swearinge of you)". Asked 
by 
the townsmen to cease his suit, Greville had answered that "hytt 
shulde coste hym **f first + sayed it must be tried ether before my Lorde 
Anderson in the countrey or his uncle ffortescue in the exchequer 
with whom he colde more prevaile then we". The corporation proposed 
Chief Justice Anderson for an arbiter, sending him a gift of sack 
and claret. Lady Greville, daughter of the late Lord Chancellor 
Bromley and niece of Sir John Fortescue, was offered twenty pounds 
by the townsmen to make peace; she "labored + thought she shuld 
effecte" it but her husband said that "we shuld wynne it by the sworde". 
His servant Robin Whitney threatened Quiney, who had Whitney 
bound to "the good abaringe" to keep the peace. A report of 
**f Edw: Grevyles minaces to the Baileefe Aldermen + Burgesses 
of Stratforde" tells how Quiney was injured by Greville's men: 
"in the tyme **f Ryc' Quyney was bayleefe ther came some of 
them whoe beinge druncke fell to braweling in ther hosts howse wher 
thei druncke + drewe ther dagers uppon the hoste: att a faier tyme the 
Baileefe being late abroade to see the towne in order + comminge by 
in 
**f hurley Burley. came into the howse + commawnded the peace to be 
kept butt colde nott prevayle + in hys endevor to sticle the brawle had 
his heade grevouselye brooken by one of hys [Greville's] men whom 
nether hym selfe [Greville] punnished nor wolde suffer to be punnished 
but with a shewe to turne them awaye + enterteyned agayne". 
The fall of Rome, the discovery of precious metals, and the Protestant 
Reformation were all links and could only be explained and understood 
by comprehending the links that preceded and those that followed.

Often the historian must consider the use of intuition or instinct 
by those individuals or nations which he is studying. Unconsciously, 
governments or races or institutions may enter into some undertaking 
without fully realizing why they are doing so. They react in obedience 
to an instinct or urge which has itself been impelled by natural 
law. A court may strike down a law on the basis of an intuitive feeling 
that the law is inimical to the numerical majority. A nation may 
go to war on some trifling pretext, when in reality it may have been 
guided by an unconscious instinct that its very life was at stake. When 
the historian encounters a situation in which he can perceive no visible 
cause and effect sequence, he should be alert to intuition and unconscious 
instinct as possible guides.   Adams firmly contended 
that the historian must never underrate the impact of the geographical 
environment on history. Here was another indispensable tool. Indeed, 
he concluded that "geographical conditions have exercised a great, 
possibly a preponderating, influence over man's destiny". The failure 
of Greece to reach the imperial destiny that Periclean Athens 
had seemed to promise was almost directly attributable to her physical 
conformation. All areas of history were either favorably or adversely 
affected by the geographical environment, and no respectable historian 
could pursue the study of history without a thorough knowledge of 
geography.   Brooks Adams was consistent in his admonishments 
to historians about the necessary tools or insights they needed to possess. 
However, as a practicing historian, he, himself, has left few clues 
to the amount of professional scholarship that he used when writing 
history. In fact, if judgments are to be rendered upon the soundness 
of his historicism, they must be based on scanty evidence. What evidence 
is available would seem to indicate that Brooks, unlike his older 
brother Henry, had most of the methodological vices usually found 
in the amateur. A credulousness, a distaste for documentation, an uncritical 
reliance on contemporary accounts, and a proneness to assume 
a theory as true before adequate proof was provided were all evidences 
of his failure to comprehend the use of the scientific method or to evaluate 
the responsibilities of the historian to his reading public. This 
is not to assume that his work was without merit, but the validity 
of his assumptions concerning the meaning of history must always be 
considered against this background of an unprofessional approach.

His credulity is perhaps best illustrated in his introduction to <The 
Emancipation of Massachusetts>, which purports to examine the 
trials of Moses and to draw a parallel between the leader of the Israelite 
exodus from Egypt and the leadership of the Puritan clergy in 
colonial New England. Much criticism has been leveled at this rather 
forced analogy, but what is equally significant is Adams' complete 
acceptance of the Biblical record as "good and trustworthy history". 
In light of the scholarly reappraisals engendered by the higher 
criticism this is a most remarkable statement, particularly coming 
from one who was well known for his antifundamentalist views. The desire 
to substantiate a thesis at the expense of sound research technique 
smacks more of 
the propagandist than the historian.   A similar amateurish 
characteristic is revealed in Adams' failure to check the 
accuracy and authenticity of his informational sources. If he found data 
that fitted his general plan, he used it and counted his sources trustworthy. 
Conversely, if statistics were uncovered which contradicted 
a cherished theory, the sources were denounced as faulty. Such manipulations 
are frequently encountered in his essay on the suppression 
of the monasteries during the English reformation. Adams depended largely 
on the dispatches of foreign ambassadors and observers in England, 
claiming that the reports of such agents had to be accurate because 
there were no newspapers. This is certainly an irrational dogmatism, 
in which the modern mind attempts to understand the spirit of the sixteenth 
century on twentieth-century terms. Moreover, he rejects the 
contemporary accounts of Englishmen, casually adjudging them to be distorted 
by prejudice because "the opinions of Englishmen are of no 
great value". What is exposited by this observation is not the inherent 
prejudices of Englishmen but the Anglophobia of Brooks Adams.

In all fairness it must be admitted that Adams made no pretense 
at being an impartial historian. Impartiality to him meant an unwillingness 
to generalize and to search for a synthesis. He deplored the 
impact of German historiography on the writing of history, terming 
it a "dismal monster". Ranke and his disciples had reduced history 
to a profession of dullness; Brooks Adams preferred the chronicles 
of Froissart or the style and theorizing of Edward Gibbon, for 
at least they took a stand on the issues about which they wrote. He wrote 
eloquently to William James that impartial history was not only 
impossible but undesirable. If the historian was convinced of his own 
correctness, then he should not allow his vision to become fogged by 
disturbing facts. It was history that must be in error, not the historian. 
It was this basic trait that separated Adams from the ranks 
of professional historians and led him to commit time and time again what 
was his most serious offense against the historical method- namely, 
the tendency to assume the truth of an hypothesis before submitting 
it to the test of facts.   All of Adams' work reflects this 
dogmatic characteristic. No page seems to be complete without the statement 
of at least one unproved generalization. One example of this 
was his assertion that "**h all servile revolts must be dealt with by 
physical force". There is no explanation of terms nor a qualification 
that most such revolts have been dealt with by force- only a bald 
dogmatism that they must, because of some undefined compulsion, be 
so repelled. On matters of race he was similarly inflexible: "Most 
of the modern Latin races seem to have inherited **h the rigidity 
of the Roman mind". He cites the French Revolution as typifying 
this rigidity but makes no mention of the Italians, who have been able 
to 
adapt to all types of circumstances. He pontificates that "one 
of the first signs of advancing civilization is the fall in the value 
of women in men's eyes". It made no difference that most evidence 
points to an opposite conclusion. For Adams had made up his mind before 
all the facts were available.   All critics of Adams and 
his methods have observed this particular deficiency. J& T& Shotwell 
was appalled by such spurious history as that which attributed the 
fall of the Carolingian empire to the woolen trade, and he urged Adams 
to "transform his essay into a real history, embodying not merely 
those facts which fit into his theory, but also the modifications 
and exceptions". A& M& Wergeland called the Adams method literally 
antihistorical, while Clive Day maintained that the assumptions 
were not confined to theories alone but were also applicable to straight 
factual evidence. Moreover, stated Day, "He always omits 
facts which tend to disprove his hypothesis". Even D& A& Wasson, 
who compared <The Emancipation of Massachusetts> to the lifting 
of a fog from ancient landscapes, was also forced to admit the methodological 
deficiencies of the author.   In summary, Brooks Adams 
felt that the nature of history was order and that the order so discovered 
was as much subject to historical laws as the forces of nature. 
Moreover, he believed that most professional historians lacked some 
of the essential instruments for a proper study of history. However, 
despite the insight of many of his observations, his own conclusions 
are open to suspicion because of his failure to employ at all times the 
correct research methods. This should not prejudice an evaluation of 
his findings, but they were not the findings of a completely impartial 
investigator. What was perhaps more important than his concept of 
the nature of history and the historical method were those forces which 
shaped the direction of his thought. In the final analysis his contribution 
to American historiography was founded on almost intuitive insights 
into religion, economics, and Darwinism, the three factors which 
conditioned his search for a law of history. 

#RELIGION WITHOUT SUPERNATURALISM# 

Brooks Adams considered religion as an extremely significant 
manifestation of man's fear of the unknown. But it was nothing 
more than that. Religion and the churches were institutions which 
had been created by man, not God. He did not deny God; he simply 
did not believe that a Creator intervened or interfered in human 
affairs. The historian need not be concerned with the philosophical problems 
suggested by religion. There was no evidence, either of a positive 
or negative type, of the actions of a Divine Being in this world; 
and, since the historian should only be interested in strictly terrestrial 
activity, his research should eliminate the supernatural. Furthermore, 
he must regard religion as the expression of human forces. 
Certainly, he must recognize its power and attempt to ascertain its 
influence on the flow of history, but he must not confuse the natural 
and the mundane with the divine.   Adams was not breaking new ground 
when he claimed that the worship of an unseen power was in reality 
a reflection of man's inability to cope with his environment. Students 
of anthropology and comparative religion had long been aware that 
there was, indeed, a direct connection. But Adams was one of the first 
to suggest that this human incompetence was the only motivating factor 
behind religion. It was this fear which explained the development 
of a priestly caste whose function in society was to mollify and appease 
the angry deities. To keep themselves entrenched in power, the 
priests were forced to demonstrate their unique status through the miracle. 
It was the use of the supernatural that kept them in business. 
The German barbarians of the fourth century offered an excellent example:

"The Germans in the fourth century were a very simple 
race, who comprehended little of natural laws, and who therefore referred 
phenomena they did not understand to supernatural intervention. 
This intervention could only be controlled by priests, and thus the 
invasions caused a rapid rise in the influence of the sacred class. The 
power of every ecclesiastical organization has always rested on the 
miracle, and the clergy have always proved their divine commission as 
did Elijah".   Adams contended that once such a special class 
had been created it became a vested interest and sought to maintain 
itself by assuming exclusive control over the relationships between 
God and man. Thus, the Church was born and because of its intrinsic 
character was soon identified as a conservative institution, determined 
to resist the forces of change, to identify itself with the political 
rulers, and to maintain a kind of splendid isolation from the masses. 
Doctrine was not only mysterious; it was also sacred, "and no 
believer in an inspired church could tolerate having her canons examined 
as we should examine human laws". These basic ideas concerning the 
nature of religion were, Adams believed, some of the major keys to 
the understanding of history and the movement of society. The dark views 
about the Puritans found in <The Emancipation of Massachusetts> 
were never altered.   Despite their adherence to the <status 
quo>, the forces of organized religion were compelled to make adjustments 
as increasing civilization augmented human knowledge. In <The 
Law of Civilization and Decay> Brooks Adams traced this evolution, 
always pointing to the fact that although the forms became more 
rational, the substance remained unchanged. The relic worship and monasticism 
of the Middle Ages were more advanced forms than were primitive 
fetish worship and nature myths. Yet, the idea imbedded in each 
was identical: to surround the unknown with mystery and to isolate that 
class which had been given special dominion over the secrets of God. 
To Adams that age in which religion exercised power over the entire 
culture of the race was one of imagination, and it is largely the 
admiration he so obviously held for such eras that betrays a peculiar 
religiosity- a sentiment he would have probably denied. 
Stephens had written his classic "incidents of travel" about these 
regions a hundred years before, and Catherwood, who had studied Piranesi 
in London and the great ruins of Egypt and Greece, had drawn 
the splendid illustrations that accompanied the text. Catherwood, an 
architect in New York, had been forgotten, like Stephens, and Victor 
reconstructed their lives as one reconstructs, for a museum, a dinosaur 
from two or three petrified bones. He had unearthed Stephens's 
letters in a New Jersey farmhouse and he discovered Stephens's 
unmarked grave in an old cemetery on the east side of New York, where 
the great traveller had been hastily buried during a cholera epidemic. 
Victor had been stirred by my account of him in <Makers and Finders,> 
for Stephens was one of the lost writers whom Melville had seen 
in his childhood and whom I was bent on resurrecting.   Victor 
had led an adventurous life. His <metier> was the American tropics, 
and he had lived all over Latin America and among the primitive 
tribes on the Amazon river. Well he knew the sleepless nights, the howling 
sore-ridden dogs and the biting insects in the villages of the 
Kofanes and Huitotoes. He had not yet undertaken the great exploit 
of his later years, the rediscovery of the ancient Inca highway, the 
route of Pizarro in Peru, but he had climbed to the original El Dorado, 
the Andean lake of Guatemala, and he had scaled the southern Sierra 
Nevada with its Tibetan-like people and looked into the emerald 
mines of Muzo. As a naturalist living for two years at the headwaters 
of the Amazon, he had collected specimens for Mexican museums, 
and he had taken to the London zoo a live quetzal, the sacred bird of 
the old Mayans. In fact, he had raised quetzal birds in his camp in 
the forest of Ecuador. Moreover, he had spent six months on the Galapagos 
islands, among the great turtles that Captain Cook had found 
there, and now and then he would disappear into some small island of 
the West Indies. Victor's book on John Lloyd Stephens was largely 
written in my study in the house at Weston.   I had had my 
name taken out of the telephone book, and this was partly because of 
a convict who had been discharged from Sing Sing and who called me night 
after night. He said he was a friend of Heywood Broun who had 
run a free employment bureau for several months during the depression, 
but the generous Broun to whom I wrote did not know his name and I 
somehow conceived the morbid notion that the man in question was prowling 
round the house. But one day came the voice of a man I had known 
when he was a boy, and I later remembered that this boy, thirty years 
before, had struck me as coming to no good. There had been something 
sinister about him that warned me against him,- I had never felt 
that way about any other boy,- but when he uttered his name on the 
telephone I had forgotten this and I was glad to do what he asked of 
me. He was a captain, he said, in the army, and on the train to New 
York his purse and all his money had been stolen, and would I lend 
him twenty-five dollars to be given him at the General Delivery window? 
Never hearing from him again, I remembered the little boy of whom 
I had had such doubts when he was ten years old. We lived for a 
while in a movie melodrama with a German cook and her son who turned 
out to be Nazis. Finally we got them out of the house, after the boy 
had run away four times looking for other Nazis, threatening to murder 
village schoolchildren and bragging that he was to be the next Fu^hrer. 
Then he began to have epileptic fits. We found that a charitable 
society in New York had a long case-history of the two; and 
they agreed to see that the tragic pair would not put poison in anybody 
else's soup.   To the Weston house came once William Allen 
Neilson, the president of Smith College who had been one of my old 
professors and who still called me "Boy" when I was sixty. It 
reminded me of my other professor, Edward Kennard Rand, of whom I 
had been so fond when I was at Harvard, the great mediaevalist and 
classical scholar who had asked me to call him "Ken", saying, "Age 
counts for nothing among those who have learned to know life <sub 
specie aeternitatis">. I had always thought of that lovable man 
as many years older than myself, although he was perhaps only twenty 
years older, and he confirmed my feeling, along with the feeling of both 
my sons, that teachers of the classics are invariably endearing. I 
must have written to say how much I had enjoyed his fine book <The 
Building 
of Eternal Rome>, and I found he had not regretted giving 
me the highest mark in his old course on the later Latin poets, although 
in my final examination I had ignored the questions and filled the 
bluebook with a comparison of Propertius and Coleridge. He had written 
to me about a dinner he had had with the Benedictine monks at St& 
Anselm's Priory in Washington. There had been reading at table, 
especially from two books, Pope Gregory the Great's account 
of St& Scholastica in his <Dialogues> and my own <The World 
of Washington Irving>. He said, "Some have criticized your book 
as 
being neither literary criticism nor history. Of course it was not 
meant to be. Some have felt that Washington Irving comes out rather 
slimly, but let them look at the title of the book". He felt as 
I felt about this best of all my books, that it was "really tops".

Two or three times, C& C& Burlingham came to lunch with 
us in Weston, that wonderful man who lived to be more than a hundred 
years old and whose birthplace had been my Wall Street suburb. His 
reading ranged from Agatha Christie to the Book of Job and he had 
an insatiable interest in his fellow-creatures, while his letters were 
full of gossip about new politicians and old men of letters with whom 
he had been intimately thrown six decades before. I could never forget 
the gaiety with which, when he was both blind and deaf, he let me 
lead him around his rooms to look at some of the pictures; and once 
when he came to see us in New York he walked away in a rainstorm, 
unwilling to hear of a taxi or even an umbrella, although he was at the 
time ninety years old. There were several men of ninety or more whom 
I knew first or last, all of whom were still productive and most of 
whom knew one another as if they had naturally come together at the apex 
of their lives. I never met John Dewey, whose style was a sort 
of verbal fog and who had written asking me to go to Mexico with him 
when he was investigating the cause of Trotsky; but I liked to think 
of him at ninety swimming and working at Key West long after Hemingway 
had moved to Cuba. At Lee Simonson's house, I had dined 
with Edith Hamilton, the nonogenarian rationalist and the charming scholar 
who had a great popular success with <The Greek Way>. Then 
there was Mark Howe and there was Henry Dwight Sedgwick, an accomplished 
man of letters who wrote in the spirit of Montaigne and produced 
in the end a formidable body of work. I saw Sedgwick often before 
his death at ninety-five,- he had remarried at the age of ninety,- 
and he asked me, when once I returned from Rome, if I knew the 
Cavallinis in the church of St& Cecilia in Trastevere. I had to 
confess that I had missed these frescoes, recently discovered, that 
he had studied in his eighties. Sedgwick had chosen to follow the philosophy 
of Epicurus whom, with his followers, Dante put in hell; but 
he defended the doctrine in <The Art of Happiness>, and what indeed 
could be said against the Epicurean virtues, health, frugality, 
privacy, culture and friendship? Of Mark Antony De Wolfe Howe 
the philosopher Whitehead said the Earth's first visitors to Mars 
should be persons likely to make a good impression, and when he was 
asked, "Whom would you send"? he replied, "My first choice 
would be Mark Howe". This friend of many years came once to visit 
us in the house at Weston. Then I spoke at the ninetieth birthday 
party of W& E& Burghardt Du Bois, who embarked on a fictional 
trilogy at eighty-nine and who, with <The Crisis>, had created a 
Negro intelligentsia that had never existed in America before him. As 
their interpreter and guide, he had broken with Tuskegee and become 
a spokesman of the coloured people of the world.   Mr& Burlingham,- 
"C&C&B&"- wrote to me once about an old friend 
of mine, S& K& Ratcliffe, whom I had first met in London in 
1914 and who also came out for a week-end in Weston. "Did you ever 
know a man with greater zest for information? And his memory, like 
an elephant's, stored with precise knowledge of men and things and 
happenings". His wife, Katie, "as gay as a lark and as lively 
as a gazelle",- she was then seventy-six,- had a "a sense of humour 
that has been denied S&K&, but neither has any aesthetic perceptions. 
People and books are enough for them". S&K& was visiting 
C&C&B& and, not waiting for breakfast, he was off to 
the University Club, where he spent hours writing obituaries of living 
Americans for the <Manchester guardian> or the <Glasgow Herald>. 
Later, rising ninety, he was beset by publishers for the story 
of his life and miracles, as he put it, but, calling himself the Needy 
Knife-grinder, he had spent his time writing short articles and long 
letters and could not get even a small popular book done. Then, all 
but blind, he said there was nothing in <Back to Methuselah>,- 
"G&B&S& ought to have known that",- and "I look at my 
bookshelves despairingly, knowing that I can have nothing more to do 
with them". However, at eighty-five, he had still been busy writing 
articles, reviewing and speaking, and I had never before known an 
Englishman who had visited and lectured in three quarters of the United 
States. Finally, colleges and clubs took the line that speakers 
from England were not wanted any longer, even speakers like S&K&, 
so unlike the novelists and poets who had patronized the Americans 
for many years. With their facile generalizations about the United 
States, these mediocrities, as they often were, had been great successes. 
While S&K& did not like Dylan Thomas, I liked his poems 
very much, but I made the mistake of telling Dylan Thomas so, whereupon 
he said to me, "I suppose you think you know all about me". 
I should have replied, "I probably know something about the best 
part of you". But I only thought of that in the middle of the night.

Many years later I went to see S&K& in England, where 
he was living at Whiteleaf, near Aylesbury, and he showed me beside 
his cottage there the remains of the road on which Boadicea is supposed 
to have travelled. He was convinced that George Orwell's <1984> 
was nearly all wrong as it applied to England, which was "driving 
forward into uncharted waters", with the danger of a new tyranny 
ahead. "But however we go, whatever our doom, it will not take the 
Orwellian shape". With facts mainly in his mind, he was often acute 
in the matter of style, and he said, "The young who have as yet 
nothing to say will try larks with initial letters and broken lines. 
But put them before a situation which they are forced to depict",- 
he was speaking of the Spanish civil war,- "and they have no hesitation; 
they merely do their best to make it real for others". 
He looked at her as she spoke, then got up as she was speaking still, 
and, simply and wordlessly, walked out. And that was the end. Or nearly.

He went to the Hotel Mayflower and telegraphed Mencken. 
Would he meet him in Baltimore in Drawing Room ~A, Car Three 
on the train leaving Washington at nine o'clock next morning? 
They would go to New York together, where parties would be piled on 
weariness and on misery. But not for long. Both Alfred Harcourt and 
Donald Brace had written him enthusiastic praise of <Elmer Gantry> 
(any changes could be made in proof, which was already coming from 
the printer) and they had ordered 140,000 copies- the largest first 
printing of any book in history. But none of this could soothe the 
exacerbated nerves. On New Year's Eve, Alfred Harcourt drove 
him up the Hudson to Bill Brown's Training Camp, a well-known establishment 
for the speedy if temporary rehabilitation of drunkards who 
could no longer help themselves. But, in departing, Lewis begged 
Breasted that there be no liquor in the apartment at the Grosvenor on 
his return, and he took with him the first thirty galleys of <Elmer 
Gantry>.   On January 4, with the boys back at school and college, 
Mrs& Lewis wrote Harcourt to say that she was "thro, quite 
thro". "This whole Washington venture was my last gesture, 
and it has failed. Physically as well as mentally I have reached the 
limit of my endurance. My last gift to him is complete silence until 
the book is out and the first heated discussion dies down. For him to 
divorce God and wife simultaneously would be bad publicity. I am 
really ill at the present moment, and I will go to some sort of a sanitarium 
to normalize myself". And she withdrew then to Cromwell 
Hall, in Cromwell, Connecticut.   Harcourt replied: "I do 
really hope you can achieve serenity in the course of time. Of course 
I hope Hal can also, but those hopes are much more faint". 

#8# 

ON JANUARY 8, 1927, he returned to the Grosvenor in high 
spirits, and looking fit. He had been, he wrote Mencken at once, "in 
the country", a euphemism for an experience that had not greatly 
changed him. Charles Breasted remembers that, before unpacking his bag, 
he telephoned his bootlegger with a generous order, and almost at 
once "the familiar procession of people began milling through our living 
room at any hour between two P&M& and three A&M&". 
They were strays of every kind- university students and journalists, 
Village hangers-on and barflies, taxi drivers and editors and unknown 
poets, as well as friends like Elinor Wylie and William Rose Benet, 
the Van Dorens and Nathan, Rebecca West and Hugh Walpole 
and Osbert Sitwell, Laurence Stallings, Lewis Browne, William Seabrook, 
Arthur Hopkins, the Woodwards. When he came home from his 
office at the end of the afternoon, Breasted never knew what gathering 
he should expect to find, but there almost always was one. 
He did not neglect his wife in Cromwell Hall, but telephoned her and 
wrote her with assurances of his continuing interest and of his wish 
to "stand behind" her in their separation and of his hope that there 
would be no bitterness between them. She was occupying herself in 
an attempt to write an article about the variety of houses that they 
had rented abroad. He was of unsettled mind as to whether he should go 
abroad when the <Gantry> galleys were finished. For a time, urging 
Breasted to give up his public relations work and take up writing 
instead, he hoped to persuade him to become his assistant in research 
for the labor novel; if Breasted agreed, they would get a car and tour 
the country, visiting every kind of industrial center. When Breasted 
insisted that this was impossible for him, Lewis decided to go abroad.

He telephoned L& M& Birkhead and asked him and his 
wife to come to Europe as his guests, but Birkhead declined on the 
grounds that one of them must be in the United States when <Elmer 
Gantry> was published. Lewis was spending his mornings, with the 
help of two secretaries, on the galleys of that long novel, making considerable 
revisions, and the combination of hard work and hard frivolity 
exhausted him once more, so that he was compelled to spend three days 
in the Harbor Sanatorium in the last week of January. Before he 
made that retreat, he telephoned Earl Blackman in Kansas City and 
asked him to come to Europe with him. Blackman was to be in New York 
by February 2, because they were sailing at 12:01 next morning. 
Lewis told him what clothes he should bring along, and enjoined him 
not to buy anything that he did not already own, they would do that 
in New York. Blackman arrived a day or two early, and Lewis took him 
to a department store immediately and outfitted him, luggage and all, 
and then he took him to a party at the Woodwards that went on until 
four in the morning.   On the evening that they were to sail, 
Lewis himself gave a party, but he was too indisposed to appear at it. 
Woodward took occasion to warn Blackman about Lewis's drinking 
and urged him to "try to keep him sober". After a dinner party for 
which she had come down to New York, Mrs& Lewis and Casanova 
arrived to see them off, and Elinor Wylie made tart observations that 
indicated that Lewis had been less discreet than he had promised to 
be about the real nature of their separation. Nevertheless, Mrs& 
Lewis was still solicitous of his condition: let him do as he wished, 
let him sleep with chambermaids if he must, but, she begged Blackman, 
try to keep him from drinking a great deal and bring him back in 
good health. As they stood at the first-class rail, waving down to his 
wife and Casanova below, Lewis said, "Earl, there is Gracie's 
future husband". And when questioned by ship's reporters about 
the separation, she said, "I adore him, and he adores me". 
Blackman had brought news from Kansas City. Before his departure, 
a group of his friends, the Reverend Stidger among them, had given 
him a luncheon, and Stidger had seen advance sheets of <Elmer Gantry>. 
He was outraged by the book and announced that he had discovered 
fifty technical errors in its account of church practices. L& M& 
Birkhead challenged him to name one and he was silent. But his rancor 
did not cease, and presently, on March 13, when he preached a sermon 
on the text, "And Ben-hadad Was Drunk", he told his congregation 
how disappointed he was in Mr& Lewis, how he regretted having 
had him in his house, and how he should have been warned by the fact 
that the novelist was drunk all the time that he was working on the 
book. But that sermon, like those of hundreds of other ministers, was 
yet to be delivered.   In London Lewis took the usual suite 
in Bury Street. To the newspapers he talked about his unquiet life, 
about his wish to be a newspaperman once more, about the prevalence of 
American slang in British speech, about the loquacity of the English 
and the impossibility of finding quiet in a railway carriage, about 
his plans to wander for two years "unless stopped and made to write 
another book". The <Manchester Guardian> wondered how anyone 
in a railway carriage would have an opportunity to talk to Mr& Lewis, 
since it was well known that Mr& Lewis always did all of the talking. 
His English friends, it said, had gone into training to keep 
up with him vocally and with his "allegro movements around the luncheon 
table". The New York <Times> editorialist wondered just who 
would stop Mr& Lewis and make him write a book.   Lewis's 
remarks about his marriage were suggestive enough to induce American 
reporters to invade the offices of Harcourt, Brace + Company for 
information, to pursue Mrs& Lewis to Cromwell Hall, and, after 
she had returned to New York, to ferret her out at the Stanhope on 
upper Fifth Avenue where she had taken an apartment. There, to the 
<Evening Post,> she emphatically denied the divorce rumors and explained 
that she had stayed behind because of the schooling of their son, 
which henceforth would be strictly American. These rumors of permanent 
separation started up a whole crop of stories about her. One had 
it that a friend, protesting her snobbery, said, "But, Gracie, 
you are an American, aren't you"? and she replied, "I was born 
in America, <but> I was <conceived> in <Vienna">. Lewis 
himself furthered these tales. He is said to have reported that once, 
when she went to a hospital to call on a friend after a serious operation, 
and the friend protested that it had been "nothing", she replied, 
"Well, it was your healthy American peasant blood that pulled 
you through". With these and similar tales he was entertaining his 
English friends, all of whom he was seeing when he was not showing 
Blackman the sights of London and its environs.   At once upon 
his arrival, he telephoned Lady Sybil Colefax who invited them to 
tea, and then Lewis decided to give a party as a quick way of rounding 
up his friends. He invited Lady Sybil, Lord Thomson, Bechhofer 
Roberts, and a half dozen others. It was a dinner party, Lewis had 
been drinking during the afternoon, and long before the party really 
got under way, he was quite drunk, with the result that the party broke 
up even before dinner was over. Lewis, at the head of the table, would 
leap up and move around behind the chairs of his guests making remarks 
that, when not highly offensive, were at least highly inappropriate, 
and then presently he collapsed and was put to bed.   When 
Blackman emerged from the bedroom, everyone was gone except the tolerant 
Lord Thomson, who stayed and chatted with him for half an hour, 
and then Blackman lay awake most of that night, despairing of what he 
must expect on the Continent. Finally, at dawn, he fell asleep, and 
when he awoke and came into the living room, he found Lewis in his pajamas 
before the fire, smoking a cigarette. Blackman said that he wanted 
to apologize for not having prevented Lewis from making that horrible 
spectacle of himself, that he should have seized him by the neck 
at once and forcibly hauled him into his bedroom. Lewis warned him never 
to lay a hand on him, and then Blackman asked for his fare back 
to the United States. Lewis looked at him and began to cry, and then, 
saying that he was going to make a promise, he asked Blackman to call 
the porter and to tell him to take out all the liquor that he did 
not want. "And from now on, for the rest of this trip, I will only 
drink what you agree that I should drink". Blackman called the porter 
and had him remove everything but one bottle of brandy, and after 
that they would have a cocktail or two before dinner, or, on one of their 
walking trips, beer, or, in France and Italy, wine in moderation.

Lewis gave him a guidebook tour of London and, motoring and 
walking, took him to Stratford, but the London stay was for only ten 
days, and on the twentieth they took the train for Southampton, where 
they spent the night for an early morning Channel crossing. Near 
Southampton, in a considerable establishment, lived Homer Vachell, 
a well-known pulp writer, and his brother, Horace- both friends of 
Lewis's. He suggested that they call on these brothers, who received 
them pleasantly. Then they returned to their hotel and got ready 
for bed. It was late, and Blackman was ready to go to sleep, but Lewis 
was not. He said, "We had a good time tonight, didn't we, Earl"? 
Earl agreed, and Lewis said that it would have been very different 
if his wife had been with him. Then he kept Blackman awake 
for more than an hour while he did an imaginary dialogue between his wife 
and himself in which, discussing the evening, he was continually berated. 
He began the dialogue by having his wife announce that one does 
not invade people's homes without warning them that one is coming, 
and went on from that with the entire catalogue of his social gaucheries. 
From 1613 on, if the lists exist, they contain between twenty to thirty 
names. As the total number of incepting bachelors in 1629 was, according 
to Masson (<Life>, 1:218 and ~n), two hundred fifty-nine, 
the twenty-four names listed in the <ordo senioritatis> for that 
year constitute slightly less than one tenth of the total number of bachelors 
who then incepted. There were four from St& John's and 
four from Christ's, three from Pembroke, and two from each of the 
colleges, Jesus, Peterhouse, Queens', and Trinity, with Caius, 
Clare, King's, Magdalene, and Sidney supplying one each in the <ordo 
senioritatis>. The list was headed by [Henry] Hutton of St& 
John's who was matriculated from St& John's at Easter, 
1625. He became a fellow of Jesus in 1629, proceeded M&A& from 
Jesus in 1632, and was proctor in 1639-40. The second name was [Edward] 
Kempe, matriculated from Queens' College at Easter, 1625. 
He proceeded M&A& in 1632, and B&D& in 1639, being made 
fellow in 1632. He was ordained deacon 16 June and priest 22 December 
1633. The third name was [John] Ravencroft, who was admitted 
to the Inner Temple in November 1631. The fourth name was [John] 
Milton of Christ's College, followed by [Richard] Manningham 
of Peterhouse, who matriculated 16 October 1624. Venn gave his B&A& 
as 1624, a mistake for 1629. Manningham also proceeded M&A& 
in 1632 and became a fellow of his college in that year. [John] 
Boutflower of Christ's was twelfth in the list, coming from Perse 
School under Mr& Lovering as pensioner 20 April 1625 under Mr& 
Alsop. The fourteenth name was [Richard] Buckenham, written 
Buckman, admitted to Christ's College under Scott 2 July 1625. 
The fifteenth name was [Thomas] Baldwin, admitted to Christ's 
4 March 1625 under Alsop. Christ's College was well represented 
that year in the <ordo>, and the name highest on the list from that 
college was Milton's, fourth in the entire university. Small wonder 
that Milton later boasted of how well his work had been received 
there, since he attained a rank in the order of commencing bachelors higher 
than that of any other inceptor from Christ's of that year.

It is not possible to reconstruct fully the arrangements whereby 
these honors lists were then made up or even how the names that they 
contained assumed the order in which we find them. The process usually 
began with a tutor boasting about a boy, as Chappell had boasted about 
Lightfoot, to the higher officers of the college and university. 
Then the various officers of the college might take up the case. It 
would, however, reach the proctors and other officers in charge of the 
public-school performances of the incepting bachelors, and the place 
that any individual obtained in the lists depended greatly on how he comported 
himself in the public schools during his acts therein as he was 
incepting. Of course the higher officials could add or place a name 
on the list wherever they wished. Milton's name being fourth is neither 
too high nor too low to be assigned to the arbitrary action of 
vice-chancellor, proctor, master, or other mighty hand. He evidently 
earned the place assigned him. 

#RECAPITULATION OF MILTON'S UNDERGRADUATE 
CAREER#

Looking back from the spring of 1629 over the four years 
of Milton's undergraduate days, certain phases of his college 
career stand out as of permanent consequence to him and hence to us. Of 
course the principal factor in the whole experience was the kind of 
education he received. It differed from what an undergraduate receives 
today from any American college or university mainly in the certainty 
of what he was forced to learn compared with the loose and widely 
scattered information obtained today by most of our undergraduates. Milton 
was required to absorb and display an intensive and accurate knowledge 
of Latin grammar, logic-rhetoric, ethics, physics or natural philosophy, 
metaphysics, and Latin, Greek, and Hebrew. He had also 
sampled various special fields of learning, being unable to miss some 
study of divinity, Justinian (law), and Galen (medicine). Above all, 
he had learned to write formal Latin prose and verse to a remarkable 
degree of artistry. He had learned to dispute devastatingly, both formally 
and informally in Latin, and according to the rules on any topic, 
pro or con, drawn from almost any subject, more especially from Aristotle's 
works. He could produce carefully constructed orations, 
set and formal speeches, artfully and prayerfully made by writing and 
rewriting with all the aid his tutor and others could provide, and then 
delivered verbatim from memory. He had also learned to dispute extempore 
remarkably well, the main evidence for which of course is the presence 
of his name in the honors list of 1628/29. He also displayed 
the ability to write Latin verse on almost any topic of dispute, the 
verses, of course, to be delivered from memory. Then we have surviving 
at least one instance of a poem prepared for another in <Naturam non 
Pati Senium>, and perhaps also the <De Idea Platonica>. But 
his greatest achievement, in his own eyes and in the eyes of his colleagues 
and teachers, was his amazing ability to produce literary Latin 
pieces, and he was often called on to do so. These were his public 
academic activities, <domi forisque>, in the college and in the university. 
And his performances attracted much attention, as the frequency 
of his surviving pieces in any calendar that may be set up for his 
undergraduate activities testifies.   His other activities are 
not so easily recovered. His statements about sports and exercises of 
a physical nature are suggestive, but inconclusive. His later boastings 
of his skill with the small sword are indicative of much time and 
practice devoted to the use of that weapon. Venn and others have dealt 
with sports and pastimes at Cambridge in Milton's day with not very 
specific results. Milton himself, uncommunicative as he is about 
his lesser and nonliterary activities, at least gives us some evidence 
that he was a great walker, under any and all conditions. His early 
poems and some of his prose prolusions speak of wanderings in the city 
and the neighboring country that may be extended to Cambridge and its 
surrounding countryside. The town itself and the "reedy Cam" he 
often visited, as did all in the university. The churches, the taverns, 
and the various other places of the town must have known his figure 
well as he roved to and about them. The tiny hamlet of Chesterton 
to the north, with the fens and marshes lying on down the Ouse River, 
may have attracted him often, as it did many other youths of the time. 
The Gog Magog Hills to the southeast afforded him and all other 
students a vantage point from which to view the town and university 
of their dwelling. The country about Cambridge is flat and not particularly 
spectacular in its scenery, though it offers easy going to the 
foot traveler. Ball games, especially football, required some attention, 
and other organized sports may have attracted him as participant 
or spectator. He smoked, as did everybody, and imbibed the various alcoholic 
beverages of that day, although his protestations while at Cambridge 
and after that he was no drunkard point to reasonable abstinence 
from the wild drinking bouts of some of the undergraduates and, we 
must add, of some of their elders including many of the regents or teachers.

What manner of person does Milton appear to have been 
when as an undergraduate he resided at Christ's College? He was 
then a slightly built young man of pleasing appearance, medium stature, 
and handsome face. Graceful as his fencing and dancing lessons had 
taught him to be in addition to the natural grace of his slight, wiry 
frame, he cut enough of a figure to have evoked a nickname in the college, 
to which he himself referred in <Prolusion /6,: A quibusdam, 
audivi nuper Domina>. That is, if we can trust that most specious 
of prolusions, packed as it is with wit and persiflage. The <Domina> 
sounds real enough, if we could only trust the conditions under 
which we learn of its use; but anyone who would put much trust in any 
phase of <Prolusion /6,> except its illusive allusiveness deserves 
whatever fate may be meted out to him by virtue of the egregiously 
stilted banter. In short, the traditional epithet for Milton of 'Lady 
of Christ's', while eminently fitting, rests only on this 
baffling passage in the midst of the most treacherous piece of writing 
Milton left us. Aubrey's mention of it (2:67, and Bodleian ~MS 
Aubr& 8, f& 63) comes from this prolusion, through Christopher 
Milton or Edward Phillips. It is not a question of truth or falsity; 
the prolusion in which the autobiographic statement about the 
epithet occurs is such a mass of intentionally buried allusions that 
almost nothing in it can be accepted as true- or discarded as false. 
The entire exercise, Latin and English, is most suggestive of the 
kind of person Milton had become at Christ's during his undergraduate 
career; the mere fact that he was selected, though as a substitute, 
to act as interlocutor or moderator for it, or perhaps we should say 
with Buck as 'father of the act', is in itself a difficult phase 
of his development to grasp. Milton was to act as the archfool, the 
supreme wit, the lightly bantering <pater, Pater Liber,> who could 
at once trip lightly over that which deserved such treatment, or could 
at will annihilate the common enemies of the college gathering, and 
with words alone. From an exercise involving merely raucous, rough-and-tumble 
comedy, in his hands the performance turned into a revel of 
wit and word play, indecent at times, but always learned, pointed, and 
carefully aimed at some individuals present, and at the whole assembly. 
To do this successfully required great skill and a special talent 
for both solemn and ribald raillery, a talent not bestowed on many persons, 
but one with which Milton was marked as being endowed and in which, 
at least in this performance, he obviously reveled. It may be thought 
unfortunate that he was called on entirely by accident to perform, 
if again we may trust the opening of the <oratio>, for it marks 
the beginning for us of his use of his peculiar form of witty word play 
that even in this Latin banter has in it the unmistakable element of 
viciousness and an almost sadistic delight in verbally tormenting an 
adversary. But the real beginnings of this development in him go back 
to the opposing of grammar school, and probably if it had not been this 
occasion and these Latin lines it would have been some others, such 
as the first prolusion, that set off this streak in him of unbridled 
and scathing verbal attack on an enemy. All western Europe would hear 
and listen to him in this same vein about the middle of the century.

But these prolusions that we have surviving from the Christ's 
College days are only one phase of his existence then. Perhaps 
his most important private activity was the combination of reading, 
discussion with a few- if we can trust his writings to Diodati and 
the younger Gill, very few- congenial companions. Lines 23-36 of <Lycidas> 
later point to a friendship with Edward King, who entered 
Christ's College 9 June 1626. No other names among the young men 
in residence at the time seem to have been even suggested by Milton 
as those of persons with whom he in any way consorted. But that scarcely 
means that he was the aloof, forbidding type of student who shared 
few if any activities with his fellows, the banter of the surviving 
prolusions providing enough evidence to deny this. Apparently he was 
not a participant in the college or university theatricals, which he 
once attacked as utterly unworthy performances (see <Apology,> 3:300); 
but even in that famous passage, Milton was aiming not at the 
theatricals as such but at their performance by 'persons either enter'd, 
or presently to enter into the ministry'. The fact that he 
nowhere mentioned theatrical performances as part of the activities of 
the boys later in his hypothetical academy (1644) should not be taken 
too seriously as evidence that he desired them to eschew such performances. 
Perhaps, in that short piece or letter written to Hartlib in 
which he sketched his scheme for educating young men, he merely overlooked 
that phase of their exercises. 
Writers of this class of science fiction have clearly in mind the assumptions 
that man can master the principles of this cause-and-effect universe 
and that such mastery will necessarily better the human lot. On 
the other hand, the bright vision of the future has been directly stated 
in science fiction concerned with projecting ideal societies- science 
fiction, of course, is related, if sometimes distantly, to that 
utopian literature optimistic about science, literature whose period 
of greatest vigor in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries 
produced Edward Bellamy's <Looking Backward> and H& G& 
Wells's <A Modern Utopia>. In Arthur Clarke's <Childhood's 
End> (1953), though written after the present flood of dystopias 
began, we can see the bright vision of science fiction clearly 
defined.   <Childhood's End>- apparently indebted to Kurd 
Lasswitz's utopian romance, <Auf Zwei Planeten> (1897), and 
also to Wells's histories of the future, especially <The World Set 
Free> (1914) and <The Shape of Things to Come> (1933)- 
describes 
the bloodless conquest of earth by the Overlords, vastly superior 
creatures who come to our world in order to prepare the human race for 
its next stage of development, an eventual merging with the composite 
mind of the universe. Arriving just in time to stop men from turning 
their planet into a radioactive wasteland, the Overlords unite earth 
into one world in which justice, order, and benevolence prevail and 
ignorance, poverty, and fear have ceased to exist. Under their rule, 
earth becomes a technological utopia. Both abolition of war and new 
techniques of production, particularly robot factories, greatly increase 
the world's wealth, a situation described in the following passage, 
which has the true utopian ring: "Everything was so cheap that 
the necessities of life were free, provided as a public service by 
the community, as roads, water, street lighting and drainage had once 
been. A man could travel anywhere he pleased, eat whatever he fancied- 
without handing over any money". With destructive tensions and 
pressures removed men have the vigor and energy to construct a new human 
life- rebuilding entire cities, expanding facilities for entertainment, 
providing unlimited opportunities for education- indeed, for 
the first time giving everyone the chance to employ his talents to the 
fullest. Mankind, as a result, attains previously undreamed of levels 
of civilization and culture, a golden age which the Overlords, a very 
evident symbol of science, have helped produce by introducing reason 
and the scientific method into human activities. Thus science is the 
savior of mankind, and in this respect <Childhood's End> only 
blueprints in greater detail the vision of the future which, though not 
always so directly stated, 
has nevertheless been present in the minds 
of most science-fiction writers.   Considering then the optimism 
which has permeated science fiction for so long, what is really remarkable 
is that during the last twelve years many science-fiction writers 
have turned about and attacked their own cherished vision of the future, 
have attacked the <Childhood's End> kind of faith that science 
and technology will inevitably better the human condition. And they 
have done this on a very large scale, with a veritable flood of novels 
and stories which are either dystopias or narratives of adventure 
with dystopian elements. Because of the means of publication- science-fiction 
magazines and cheap paperbacks- and because dystopian science 
fiction is still appearing in quantity the full range and extent 
of this phenomenon can hardly be known, though one fact is evident: 
the science-fiction imagination has been immensely fertile in its extrapolations. 
Among the dystopias, for example, Isaac Asimov's <The 
Caves of Steel> (1954) portrays the deadly effects on human life 
of the super-city of the future; James Blish's <A Case of Conscience> 
(1958) describes a world hiding from its own weapons of destruction 
in underground shelters; Ray Bradbury's <Fahrenheit 
451> (1954) presents a book-burning society in which wall television 
and hearing-aid radios enslave men's minds; Walter M& Miller, 
Jr&'s, <A Canticle for Leibowitz> (1959) finds men, after 
the great atomic disaster, stumbling back to their previous level of 
civilization and another catastrophe; Frederick Pohl's "The Midas 
Touch" (1954) predicts an economy of abundance which, in order 
to remain prosperous, must set its robots to consuming surplus production; 
Clifford D& Simak's "How-2" (1954) tells of a future 
when robots have taken over, leaving men nothing to do; and Robert 
Sheckley's <The Status Civilization> (1960) describes a world 
which, frightened by the powers of destruction science has given it, 
becomes static and conformist. A more complete list would also include 
Bradbury's "The Pedestrian" (1951), Philip K& 
Dick's 
<Solar Lottery> (1955), David Karp's <One> (1953), Wilson 
Tucker's <The Long Loud Silence> (1952), Jack Vance's 
<To Live Forever> 
(1956), Gore Vidal's <Messiah> (1954), and 
Bernard Wolfe's <Limbo> (1952), as well as the three perhaps most 
outstanding dystopias, Frederik Pohl and C& M& Kornbluth's 
<The Space Merchants> (1953), Kurt Vonnegut's <Player 
Piano> (1952), and John Wyndham's <Re-Birth> (1953), works which 
we will later examine in detail. The novels and stories like Pohl's 
<Drunkard's Walk> (1960), with the focus on adventure and 
with the dystopian elements only a dim background- in this case an 
uneasy, overpopulated world in which the mass of people do uninteresting 
routine jobs while a carefully selected, university-trained elite 
runs everything- are in all likelihood as numerous as dystopias.

There is, of course, nothing new about dystopias, for they belong 
to a literary tradition which, including also the closely related satiric 
utopias, stretches from at least as far back as the eighteenth century 
and Swift's <Gulliver's Travels> to the twentieth century 
and Zamiatin's <We,> Capek's <War with the Newts,> Huxley's 
<Brave New World,> E& M& Forster's "The Machine 
Stops", C& S& Lewis's <That Hideous Strength,> 
and Orwell's <Nineteen Eighty-Four,> and which in science fiction 
is represented 
before the present deluge as early as Wells's trilogy, <The 
Time Machine,> "A Story of the Days to Come", and <When 
the Sleeper Wakes,> and as recently as Jack Williamson's "With 
Folded Hands" (1947), the classic story of men replaced by their 
own robots. What makes the current phenomenon unique is that so 
many science-fiction writers have reversed a trend and turned to writing 
works critical of the impact of science and technology on human life. 
Since the great flood of these dystopias has appeared only in the 
last twelve years, it seems fairly reasonable to assume that the chief 
impetus was the 1949 publication of <Nineteen Eighty-Four,> an assumption 
which is supported by the frequent echoes of such details as 
Room 101, along with education by conditioning from <Brave New World,> 
a book to which science-fiction writers may well have returned 
with new interest after reading the more powerful Orwell dystopia.

Not all recent science fiction, however, is dystopian, for the 
optimistic strain is still very much alive in <Mission of Gravity> 
and <Childhood's End,> as we have seen, as well as in many other 
recent popular novels and stories like Fred Hoyle's <The Black 
Cloud> (1957); and among works of dystopian science fiction, not 
all provide intelligent criticism and very few have much merit as literature- 
but then real quality has always been scarce in science fiction. 
In addition, there are many areas of the human situation besides 
the impact of science and technology which are examined, for science-fiction 
dystopias often extrapolate political, social, economic tendencies 
only indirectly related to science and technology. Nevertheless, 
with all these qualifications and exceptions, the current dystopian 
phenomenon remains impressive for its criticism that science and technology, 
instead of bringing utopia, may well enslave, dehumanize, and even 
destroy men. How effectively these warnings can be presented is seen 
in Pohl and Kornbluth's <The Space Merchants,> Vonnegut's 
<Player Piano> and Wyndham's <Re-Birth>.   Easily 
the best known of these three novels is <The Space Merchants,> a 
good example of a science-fiction dystopia which extrapolates much more 
than the impact of science on human life, though its most important 
warning is in this area, namely as to the use to which discoveries in 
the behavioral sciences may be put. The novel, which is not merely dystopian 
but also brilliantly satiric, describes a future America where 
one-sixteenth of the population, the men who run advertising agencies 
and big corporations, control the rest of the people, the submerged 
fifteen-sixteenths who are the workers and consumers, with the government 
being no more than "a clearing house for pressures". Like 
ours, the economy of the space merchants must constantly expand in order 
to survive, and, like ours, it is based on the principle of "ever 
increasing everybody's work and profits in the circle of consumption". 
The consequences, of course, have been dreadful: reckless expansion 
has led to overpopulation, pollution of the earth and depletion 
of its natural resources. For example, even the most successful executive 
lives in a two-room apartment while ordinary people rent space in 
the stairwells of office buildings in which to sleep at night; soyaburgers 
have replaced meat, and wood has become so precious that it is 
saved for expensive jewelry; and the atmosphere is so befouled that 
no one dares walk in the open without respirators or soot plugs.

While <The Space Merchants> indicates, as Kingsley Amis has 
correctly observed, some of the "impending consequences of the growth 
of industrial and commercial power" and satirizes "existing habits 
in the advertising profession", its warning and analysis penetrate 
much deeper. What is wrong with advertising is not only that it is 
an "outrage, an assault on people's mental privacy" or that it 
is a major cause for a wasteful economy of abundance or that it contains 
a coercive tendency (which is closer to the point). Rather what Kornbluth 
and Pohl are really doing is warning against the dangers inherent 
in perfecting "a science of man and his motives". <The Space 
Merchants,> like such humanist documents as Joseph Wood Krutch's 
<The Measure of Man> and C& S& Lewis's <The Abolition 
of Man,> considers what may result from the scientific study 
of human nature. If man is actually the product of his environment 
and if science can discover the laws of human nature and the ways in which 
environment determines what people do, then someone- a someone 
probably standing outside traditional systems of values- can turn around 
and develop completely efficient means for controlling people. Thus 
we will have a society consisting of the planners or conditioners, 
and the controlled. And this, of course, is exactly what Madison Avenue 
has been accused of doing albeit in a primitive way, with its "hidden 
persuaders" and what the space merchants accomplish with much 
greater sophistication and precision.   Pohl and Kornbluth's 
ad men have long since thrown out appeals to reason and developed techniques 
of advertising which tie in with "every basic trauma and neurosis 
in American life", which work on the libido of consumers, which 
are linked to the "great prime motivations of the human spirit". 
As the hero, Mitchell Courtenay, explains before his conversion, 
the job of advertising is "to convince people without letting them 
know that they're being convinced". And to do this requires first 
of all the kind of information about people which is provided by the 
scientists in industrial anthropology and consumer research, who, for 
example, tell Courtenay that three days is the "optimum priming period 
for a closed social circuit to be triggered with a catalytic cue-phrase"- 
which means that an effective propaganda technique is to send 
an idea into circulation and then three days later reinforce or undermine 
it. And the second requirement for convincing people without 
their knowledge is artistic talent to prepare the words and pictures which 
persuade by using the principles which the scientists have discovered. 
Thus the copywriter in the world of the space merchants is the 
person who in earlier ages might have been a lyric poet, the person "capable 
of putting together words that stir and move and sing". As 
Courtenay explains, "Here in this profession we reach into the souls 
of men and women. And we do it by taking talent- and redirecting 
it".   Now the basic question to be asked in this situation 
is what motivates the manipulators, that is, what are their values?- 
since, as Courtenay says, "Nobody should play with lives the way 
we do unless he's motivated by the highest ideals". But the only 
ideal he can think of is "Sales"! Indeed, again and again, the 
space merchants confirm the prediction of the humanists that the conditioners 
and behavioral scientists, once they have seen through human 
nature, will have nothing except their impulses and desires to guide 
them. 
##

We often say of a person that he "looks young for his age" 
or "old for his age". Yet even in the more extreme of such cases 
we seldom go very far astray in guessing what his age actually is. And 
this means, I suppose, that almost invariably age reveals itself by 
easily recognizable signs engraved on both the body and the mind. "Young 
for his age" means only the presence of some minor characteristic 
not quite usual. Stigmata quite sufficient for diagnosis are nevertheless 
there. An assumption of youth, or the presence of a few youthful 
characteristics, deceives no more successfully than rouge or dyed 
hair. "Looking young for your age" means "for your age" and 
it means no more.   A mind expressing itself in words may reveal 
itself a little less obviously as old or young. Its surface loses its 
bloom and submits to its wrinkles in ways less immediately obvious 
than the body does. Youth may be, and often is, skeptical, cynical or 
despairing; age may be idealistic, believing and much given to professions 
of optimism. But there is, nevertheless, always a subtle difference 
in the way in which supposedly similar opinions are held. The 
pessimism of the young is defiant, anxious to confess or even exaggerate 
its ostensible gloom, and so exuberant as to reveal the fact that 
it regards 
its ability to face up to the awful truth as more than enough to compensate 
for the awfulness of that truth. Similarly the optimism of age 
protests too much. If it proclaims that the best is yet to be, it always 
arouses, at least in the young, either a suspicious question or perhaps 
the exclamation of the Negro youth who saw on a tombstone the 
inscription, "I am not dead but sleeping". "Boy, you ain't fooling 
nobody but yourself".   We may say of some unfortunates 
that they were never young. We cannot truthfully say of anyone who has 
succeeded in entering deep into his sixties that he was never old. 
Those famous lines of the Greek Anthology with which a fading beauty 
dedicates her mirror at the shrine of a goddess reveal a wise attitude: 
"Venus take my votive glass, Since I am not what I was, What 
from this day I shall be, Venus, let me never see".   No 
good can come of contemplating the sad, inevitable fact that once youth 
has passed "a worse and worse time still succeeds the former". 
But there are at least two reasons for contemplating one's <mind> 
in even a cracked mirror. One is that there sometimes are real although 
inadequate compensations in growing old. Serenity, if one is fortunate 
enough to achieve it, is not so good as joy, but it is something. 
Even to be "from hope and fear set free" is at least better than 
to have lost the first without having got rid of the second. The other 
reason (and the one with which I am here concerned) is that one thus 
becomes inclined to inquire of any opinion, or change of opinion, 
whether it represents the wisdom of experience or is only the result of 
the difference between youth and age which is as inevitable as the all 
too obvious physical differences. One may be exasperatingly aware 
that if the answer is favorable it will be judged such only by those of 
one's own age. But at least the question has been raised. Many readers 
of this department no doubt discount certain of my opinions for 
the simple reason that they can guess pretty accurately, even if they 
have never actually been told, what my age is. At least I should like 
them to know that I know these discounts are being made. ##

Let 
me then (and in public) glance into the mirror. I have known some 
men and women who said that the selves they are told about or even remember 
seem utter strangers to them now; that their remote past is as 
discontinuous with their present selves, as lacking in any conscious 
likeness to their mature personality, as the self of a butterfly may be 
imagined discontinuous with that of the caterpillar it once was. For 
my part I find it difficult to conceive such a state of affairs. I 
have changed and I have reversed opinions; but I am so aware of an 
uninterrupted continuity of the persona or ego that I see only as absurd 
the tendency of some psychologists from Heraclitus to Pirandello 
and Proust to regard consciousness as no more than a flux amid which 
nothing remains unchanged. So far as I am concerned, the child is 
unmistakably father to the man, despite the obvious fact that child and 
father differ greatly- sometimes for the better and sometimes for 
the worse.   Fundamental values, temperament and the way in which 
one approaches a conviction change less, of course, than specific opinions. 
That fact is very clearly illustrated in the case of the many 
present-day intellectuals who were Communists or near-Communists in 
their youth and are now so extremely conservative (or reactionary, as 
many would say) that they can define no important political conviction 
that does not seem so far from even a centrist position as to make 
the distinction between Mr& Nixon and Mr& Khrushchev for them 
hardly worth noting. But in ways more fundamental than specific political 
opinions they are still what they always were: passionate, sure 
without a shadow of doubt of whatever it is that they are sure of, capable 
of seeing black and white only and, therefore, committed to the 
logical extreme of whatever it is they are temporarily committed to.

To those of my readers who find many of my opinions morally, or 
politically, or sociologically antiquated (and I have reason to know 
that there are some such), I would like to say what I have already 
hinted, namely, that some of my opinions may indeed be subject to some 
discount on the simple ground that I am no longer young and therefore 
incapable of being youthful of mind. But I will also remind them that 
I have always been inclined to skepticism, to a kind of Laodicean 
lack of commitment so far as public affairs are concerned; so that, 
although not as eager as I once was to be disapproved of, I can still 
resist prevailing opinions.   At about the age of twelve I became 
a Spencerian liberal, and I have always considered myself a liberal 
of some kind even though the definition has changed repeatedly since 
Spencer became a reactionary. Several times in my youth I voted 
the Socialist ticket, but less because I was Socialist than because 
I was not either a Republican or a Democrat, and I voted for 
Franklin Roosevelt every time he was a candidate. Yet during the years 
when I was on the staff of the <Nation,> I tried to the limit 
the patience of the editors on almost every occasion when I was permitted 
to write an editorial having a bearing on a political or social 
question.   Never once during the trying thirties did I come so 
close to succumbing to the private climate of opinion as to grant Russian 
communism even that most weasel-worded of encomiums "an interesting 
experiment". There are few things of which I am prouder than 
of that unblemished record. Many of my friends at the time thought that 
I had received a well-deserved condemnation when Lincoln Steffens 
denounced me in a review of one of my books as a perfect example of 
the obsolete man who could understand and sympathize only with the dead 
past. But he, as I can now retort, was the man who could see so 
short a distance ahead that after a visit to Russia he gave voice to 
the famous exclamation: "I have seen the future and it works".

The favorite excuse of those who have now recanted their approval 
of communism is that they did not know how things would develop. With 
this excuse I have never been much impressed. There was, it seems 
to me, enough in the openly declared principles and intentions of Russian 
leaders to alienate honorable men without their having to wait 
to see how it would turn out.   Once many years ago I sat at dinner 
next to Arthur Train, and the subject of the <Nation> came 
up. He asked me suddenly, "What are <your> political opinions"? 
"Well", I replied, "some of my colleagues on the paper regard 
me as a rank reactionary". After a moment's thought he replied, 
"That still leaves you a lot of latitude". And I suppose it 
did.   I never have been, and am not now, any kind of utopian. When 
I first came across Samuel Johnson's pronouncement, "the remedy 
for the ills of life is palliative rather than radical", it seemed 
to me to sum up the profoundest of political and social truths. It 
will probably explain more of my attitudes toward society than any 
other phrase or principle could. ##

Why did I choose to fill these 
pages in this particular issue with this mixture of rather tenuous 
reflections and autobiography? The reason is, I think, my awareness 
that my remarks last quarter on pacifism may well have served to confirm 
the opinion of some that my tendency to skepticism and dissent gets 
us nowhere, and that I am simply too old to hope. I would, however, 
like to suggest that, wrong though I may be, the tendency to see 
dilemmas rather than solutions is one of which I have been a victim ever 
since I can remember, and therefore not merely a senile phenomenon. 
I know that one must act. But one need not always be sure that the 
action is either wise or conclusive.   Apropos of what some would 
call cynicism, I remember an anecdote the source of which I forget. 
It concerns a small-town minister who staged an impressive object 
lesson by confining a lion and a lamb together in the same cage outside 
his church door. Not only his parishioners, but the whole town and, 
ultimately, the whole county were enormously impressed by this object 
lesson. One day he was visited by a delegation of would-be imitators 
who wanted to know his secret. "How on earth do you manage it? 
What is the trick"? "Why", he replied, "it is perfectly simple; 
there is no trick involved. All you have to do is put in a fresh 
lamb from time to time". Cynical? Blasphemous? Not really, 
it seems to me. The promise that the lion and the lamb will lie down 
together was given in the future tense. It is not something that can 
be expected to happen now. ##

Without really changing the general 
subject, I take this opportunity to confess that I am troubled by 
doubts, not only about pacifism, but also when asked to join in the protest 
against a law that most of those who consider themselves humane 
and liberal seem to regard as obviously barbarous; namely, the law 
that prescribes the death penalty for murder when there seem to be no 
extenuating circumstances. It is not that I am unaware of the force 
of their strongest contention. Life, they say, should be regarded as 
sacred and, therefore, as something that neither an individual nor his 
society has a right to take away. In fact I cannot imagine myself 
condemning a man to the noose or the electric chair if I had to take, 
as an individual, the responsibility for his death. Just as I know 
I would make a bad soldier even though I cannot sincerely call myself 
a pacifist, so too I would not be either a hangman by profession or, 
if I could avoid it, even a member of a hanging jury. Despite these 
facts the question "Should no murderer ever be executed"? seems 
to me to create a dilemma not to be satisfactorily disposed of by a 
simple negative answer.   Punishment of the wrongdoer, so liberals 
are inclined to say, can have only three possible justifications: 
revenge, reformation or deterrent example. 
For here if anywhere in contemporary literature is a major effort to 
counterbalance Existentialism and restore some of its former lustre to 
the tarnished image of the species Man, or, as Malraux himself puts 
it, "to make men conscious of the grandeur they ignore in themselves". 
#/1,#

Andre Malraux's <The Walnut Trees of Altenburg> 
was written in the early years of the second World War, during 
a period of enforced leisure when he was taken prisoner by the Germans 
after the fall of France. The manuscript, presumably after being 
smuggled out of the country, was published in Switzerland in 1943. 
The work as it stands is not the entire book that Malraux wrote at that 
time- it is only the first section of a three-part novel called 
<La Lutte avec l'Ange;> and this first section was somehow preserved 
(there are always these annoying little mysteries about the actual 
facts of Malraux's life) when the Gestapo destroyed the rest. 
If we are to believe the list of titles printed in Malraux's latest 
book, <La Metamorphose des Dieux,> Vol& /1, (1957), he is 
still 
engaged in writing a large novel under his original title. But as he 
remarks in his preface to <The Walnut Trees,> "a novel can hardly 
ever be rewritten", and "when this one appears in its final form, 
the form of the first part **h will no doubt be radically changed". 
Malraux pretends, perhaps with a trifle too self-conscious a modesty, 
that his fragmentary work will accordingly "appeal only to the 
curiosity of bibliophiles" 
and "to connoisseurs of what might have 
been". Even in its present form, however, the first part of Malraux's 
unrecoverable novel is among the greatest works of mid-twentieth 
century literature; and it should be far better known than it is.

The theme of <The Walnut Trees of Altenburg> is most closely 
related to its immediate predecessor in Malraux's array of novels: 
<Man's Hope> (1937). This magnificent but greatly underestimated 
book, which bodies forth the very form and pressure of its time 
as no other comparable creation, has suffered severely from having 
been written about an historical event- the Spanish Civil War- 
that is still capable of fanning the smoldering fires of old political 
feuds. Even so apparently impartial a critic as W& H& Frohock 
has taken for granted that the book was originally intended as a piece 
of Loyalist propaganda; and has then gone on to argue, with unimpeachable 
consistency, that all the obviously non-propagandistic aspects 
of the book are simply inadvertent "contradictions".   Nothing, 
however, could be farther from the truth. The whole purpose of 
<Man's Hope> is to portray the tragic dialectic between means and 
ends inherent in all organized political violence- and even when such 
violence is a necessary and legitimate self-defense of liberty, justice 
and human dignity. Nowhere before in Malraux's pages have we 
met such impassioned defenders of a "quality of man" which transcends 
the realm of politics and even the realm of action altogether- 
both the action of Malraux's early anarchist-adventurers like Perken 
and Garine, and the self-sacrificing action of dedicated Communists 
like Kyo Gisors and Katow in <Man's Fate>. "Man engages 
only a small part of himself in an action" says old Alvear the art-historian; 
"and the more the action claims to be total, the smaller 
is the part of man engaged". These lines never cease to haunt 
the book amidst all the exaltations of combat, and to make an appeal for 
a larger and more elemental human community than one based on the brutal 
necessities of war.   It is this larger theme of the "quality 
of man", a quality that transcends the ideological and flows into 
"the human", which now forms the pulsating heart of Malraux's 
artistic universe. Malraux, to be sure, does not abandon the world 
of violence, combat and sudden death which has become his hallmark as 
a creative artist, and which is the only world, apparently, in which 
his imagination can flame into life. <The Walnut Trees of Altenburg> 
includes not one war but two, and throws in a Turkish revolution 
along with some guerrilla fighting in the desert for good measure. But 
while war still serves as a catalyst for the values that Malraux wishes 
to express, these values are no longer linked with the triumph or 
defeat of any cause- whether that of an individual assertion of the 
will-to-power, or a collective attempt to escape from the humiliation 
of oppression- as their necessary condition. On the contrary, the 
frenzy and furor of combat is only the sombre foil against which the 
sudden illuminations of the human flash forth with the piercing radiance 
of a Caravaggio. #/2,#

<The Walnut Trees of Altenburg> 
is composed in the form of a triptych, with the two small side panels 
framing and enclosing the main central episode of the novel. This 
central episode consists of a series of staccato scenes set in the period 
from the beginning of the present century up to the first World War. 
The framing scenes, on the other hand, both take place in the late 
Spring of 1940, just at the moment of the defeat of France in the 
second great world conflict. The narrator is an Alsatian serving with 
the French Army, and he has the same name (Berger) that Malraux 
himself was later to use in the Resistance; like Malraux he was also 
serving in the tank corps before being captured, and we learn as well 
that in civilian life he had been a writer. These biographical analogies 
are obvious, and far too much time has been spent speculating 
on their possible implications.   Much more important is to grasp 
the feelings of the narrator (whose full name is never given) as he 
becomes aware of the disorganized and bewildered mass of French prisoners 
clustered together in a temporary prison camp in and around the cathedral 
of Chartres. For as his companions gradually dissolve back 
into a state of primitive confrontation with elemental necessity, as they 
lose all the appanage of their acquired culture, he is overcome by 
the feeling that he is at last being confronted with the essence of mankind. 
"As a writer, by what have I been obsessed these last ten 
years, if not by mankind? Here I am face to face with the primeval 
stuff".   The intuition about mankind conveyed in these opening 
pages is of crucial importance for understanding the remainder of 
the text; and we must attend to it more closely than has usually been 
done. What does the narrator see and what does he feel? A good many 
pages of the first section are taken up with an account of the dogged 
determination of the prisoners to write to their wives and families- 
even when it becomes clear that the Germans are simply allowing 
the letters to blow away in the wind. Awkwardly and laboriously, in stiff, 
unemotional phrases, the soldiers continue to bridge the distance 
between themselves and those they love; they instinctively struggle 
to keep open a road to the future in their hearts. And by a skillful 
and unobtrusive use of imagery (the enclosure is called a "Roman-camp 
stockade", the hastily erected lean-to is a "Babylonian hovel", 
the men begin to look like "Peruvian mummies" and to acquire 
"Gothic faces"), Malraux projects a fresco of human endurance- 
which is also the endurance of the human- stretching backward into 
the dark abyss of time. The narrator feels himself catching a glimpse 
of pre-history, learning of man's "age-old familiarity with misfortune", 
as well as his "equally age-old ingenuity, his secret 
faith in endurance, however crammed with catastrophes, the same faith 
perhaps as the cave-men used to have in the face of famine". 
This new vision of man that the narrator acquires is also accompanied 
by a re-vision of his previous view. "I thought I knew more than 
my education had taught me" notes the narrator, "because I had encountered 
the militant mobs of a political or religious faith". Is 
this not Malraux himself alluding to his own earlier infatuation with 
the ideological? But now he knows "that an intellectual is not only 
a man to whom books are necessary, he is any man whose reasoning, 
however elementary it may be, affects and directs his life". From this 
point of view the "militant mobs" of the past, stirred into action 
by one ideology or another, were all composed of "intellectuals"- 
and this is not the level on which the essence of mankind can be 
discovered. The men around him, observes the narrator, "have been 
living from day to day for thousands of years". The human is deeper 
than a mass ideology, certainly deeper than the isolated individual; 
and the narrator recalls the words of his father, Vincent Berger: 
"It is not by any amount of scratching at the individual that one 
finally comes down to mankind".   The entire middle section 
of <The Walnut Trees> is taken up with the life of Vincent Berger 
himself, whose fragmentary notes on his "encounters with mankind" 
are now conveyed by his son. "He was not much older than myself" 
writes the narrator, "when he began to feel the impact of that human 
mystery which now obsesses me, and which makes me begin, perhaps, 
to understand him". For the figure of Vincent Berger Malraux has 
obviously drawn on his studies of T& E& Lawrence (though Berger 
fights on the side of the Turks instead of against them), and like 
both Lawrence and Malraux himself he is a fervent admirer of Nietzsche. 
A professor at the University of Constantinople, where his first 
course of lectures was on Nietzsche and the "philosophy of action", 
Vincent Berger becomes head of the propaganda department of the 
German Embassy in Turkey. As an Alsatian before the first World 
War he was of course of German nationality; but he quickly involves 
himself in the Young Turk revolutionary movement to such an extent 
that his own country begins to doubt his patriotism. And, after becoming 
the right-hand man of Enver Pasha, he is sent by the latter 
to pave the way for a new Turkish Empire embracing "the union of all 
Turks throughout Central Asia from Adrianople to the Chinese oases 
on the Silk Trade Route".   Vincent Berger's mission 
is a failure because the Ottoman nationalism on which Enver Pasha 
counted does not exist. Central Asia is sunk in a somnolence from which 
nothing can awaken it; and amid a dusty desolation in which nothing 
human any longer seemed to survive, Vincent Berger begins to dream 
of the Occident. "Oh for the green of Europe! Trains whistling 
in the night, the rattle and clatter of cabs **h". Finally, after 
almost being beaten to death by a madman- he could not fight back 
because madmen are sacred to Islam- he throws up his mission and 
returns to Europe. This has been his first encounter with mankind, and, 
although he has now become a legendary figure in the popular European 
press, it leaves him profoundly dissatisfied. Despite Berger's 
report, Enver Pasha refuses to surrender his dream of a Turkish Blood 
Alliance; and Vincent Berger learns that political ambition 
is more apt to hide than to reveal the truth about men. But as he discovers 
shortly, on returning among intellectuals obsessed by <le culte 
du moi,> his experience of action had also taught him a more positive 
lesson. "For six years my father had had to do too much commanding 
and convincing" writes the narrator, "not to understand that man 
begins with 'the other'".   And when Vincent Berger returns 
to Europe, this first result of his encounters with mankind is 
considerably enriched and deepened by a crucial revelation. For a dawning 
sense of illumination occurs in consequence of two events which, 
as so often in Malraux, suddenly confront a character with the existential 
question of the nature and value of human life. One such event 
is the landing in Europe itself, when the mingled familiarity and strangeness 
of the Occident, after the blank immensities of Asia, shocks 
the returning traveller into a realization of the infinite <possibilities> 
of human life. 
In a pessimistic assessment of the cold war, Eden declared: "There 
must be much closer unity within the West before there can be effective 
negotiation with the East". Ordinary methods of diplomacy within 
the free world are inadequate, said the former Prime Minister. 
"Something much more thorough is required". Citing the experience 
of the Combined Chiefs of Staff in World War /2,, Eden said 
that all would have been confusion and disarray without them. "This", 
he said, "is exactly what has been happening between the politically 
free nations in the postwar world. We need joint chiefs of a political 
general staff". Citing the advances of Communist power in 
recent years, Sir Anthony observed: "This very grave state of 
affairs will continue until the free nations accept together the reality 
of the danger that confronts them and unite their policies and resources 
to meet it".   While I fully agree with Sir Anthony's 
contention, I think that we must carry the analysis farther, bearing 
in mind that while common peril may be the measure of our <need>, 
the existence or absence of a positive sense of community must be the 
measure of our <capacity>.   While it is hazardous to project 
the trend of history, it seems clear that a genuine community is painfully 
emerging in the Western world, particularly among the countries 
of Western Europe. At the end of World War /2,, free Europe was 
ready for a new beginning. The excesses of nationalism had brought 
down upon Europe a generation of tyranny and war, and a return to the 
old order of things seemed unthinkable. Under these conditions a new 
generation of Europeans began to discover the bonds of long association 
and shared values that for so long had been subordinated to nationalist 
xenophobia. A slow and painful trend toward unification has taken 
hold, a trend which may at any time be arrested and reversed but which 
may also lead to a binding federation of Europe. It may well be 
that the unification of Europe will prove inadequate, that the survival 
of free society will require nothing less than the confederation of 
the entire Western world.   The movement toward European unity 
has been expressed in two currents: federalism and functionalism, 
one looking to the constitution of a United States of Europe, the 
other building on wartime precedents of practical coo^peration for the 
solution of specific problems. Thus far the advances made have been 
almost entirely along functional lines.   Many factors contributed 
to the growth of the European movement. In 1946 Sir Winston Churchill, 
who had spoken often of European union during the war, advocated 
the formation of "a kind of United States of Europe". Had 
Churchill been returned to office in 1945, it is just possible that 
Britain, instead of standing fearfully aloof, would have <led> Europe 
toward union.   In 1947 and 1948 the necessity of massive 
coo^rdinated efforts to achieve economic recovery led to the formation 
of the Organization for European Economic Coo^peration to supervise 
and coo^rdinate the uses of American aid under the Marshall 
Plan. The United States might well have exploited the opportunity 
provided by the European Recovery Program to push the hesitant European 
nations toward political federation as well as economic coo^peration, 
but all proposals to this effect were rejected by the United 
States Government at the time.   Another powerful factor in 
the European movement was the threat of Soviet aggression. The Communist 
coup in Czechoslovakia in 1948 was followed immediately by the 
conclusion of the Brussels Treaty, a 50-year alliance among Britain, 
France and the Benelux countries. And of course the Soviet threat 
was responsible for ~NATO, the grand alliance of the Atlantic 
nations.   New organs of unification proliferated in the decade 
following the conclusion of the ~NATO alliance. In 1949 the Council 
of Europe came into existence, a purely consultative parliamentary 
body but the first organ of political rather than functional unity. 
In 1952, the European Coal and Steel Community was launched, 
placing the coal and steel production of France, West Germany, Italy 
and Benelux under a supranational High Authority. For a time it 
appeared that a common European army might be created, but the project 
for a European Defense Community was rejected by the French National 
Assembly in 1954. In 1957 the social-economic approach to European 
integration was capped by the formation among "the Six" of 
a tariff-free European Common Market, and Euratom for coo^peration 
in the development of atomic energy.   The "overseas" democracies 
have generally encouraged the European unification movement 
without seriously considering the wisdom of their own full participation 
in a broader Atlantic community. The United States and Canada 
belong only to ~NATO and the new O&E&C&D&. Britain 
until recently went along in some areas with all of the enthusiasm of 
the groom at a shotgun wedding. In other areas it held back, pleading 
its Commonwealth bonds. Now Britain has decided to seek admission 
to the European Economic Community and it seems certain that she will 
be joined by some of her partners in the loose Free Trade Area 
of the "Outer Seven". Besides its historical significance as a 
break with the centuries-old tradition of British insularity, Britain's 
move, if successful, will constitute an historic landmark of the 
first importance in the movement toward the unification of Europe and 
the Western world.   If a broader Atlantic community is to 
be formed- and my own judgment is that it lies within the realm of both 
our needs and our capacity- a ready nucleus of machinery is at hand 
in the ~NATO alliance. The time is now ripe, indeed overdue, 
for the vigorous development of its non-military potentialities, for 
its development as an instrument of Atlantic community. What is required 
is the full implementation of Article 2 of the Treaty, which 
provides: "The Parties will contribute toward the further development 
of peaceful and friendly international relations by strengthening 
their free institutions, by bringing about a better understanding of 
the principles upon which these institutions are founded, and by promoting 
conditions of stability and well-being. They will seek to eliminate 
conflict in their international economic policies and will encourage 
economic collaboration between any and all of them". As Lester 
Pearson wrote in 1955: "~NATO cannot live on fear alone. It 
cannot become the source of a real Atlantic community if it remains 
organized to deal only with the military threat which first brought 
it into being".   The problem of ~NATO is not one of machinery, 
of which there is an abundance, but of the will to use it. The 
~NATO Council is available as an executive agency, the Standing 
Group as a high military authority. The unofficial Conference of 
Parliamentarians is available as a potential legislative authority. 
This machinery will not become the instrument of an Atlantic community 
by fiat, but only when that community evolves from potentiality to 
reality. The existence of a community is a state of mind- a conviction 
that goals and values are widely shared, that effective communication 
is possible, that mutual trust is reasonably assured.   An 
equally promising avenue toward Atlantic community may lie through the 
development and expansion of the O&E&C&D& Conceived as 
an organ of economic coo^peration, there is no reason why O&E&C&D& 
cannot evolve into a broader instrument of union if its members 
so desire. Indeed it might be a more appropriate vehicle than ~NATO 
for the development of a parliamentary organ of the Atlantic 
nations, because it could encompass <all> of the members of the Atlantic 
community including those, like Sweden and Switzerland, who 
are unwilling to be associated with an essentially military alliance like 
~NATO.   Underlying these hopes and prescriptions is a 
conviction that the nations of the North Atlantic area do indeed form 
a community, at least a potential community. There is nothing new 
in this; what is new and compelling is that the West is now but one 
of several powerful civilizations, or "systems", and that one or 
more of the others may pose a mortal danger to the West. For centuries 
the North Atlantic nations dominated the world and as long as they 
did they could afford the luxury of fighting each other. That time 
is now past and the Atlantic nations, if they are to survive, must develop 
a full-fledged community, and they must also look beyond the frontiers 
of "Western civilization" toward a world-wide "concert of 
free nations". #/6,#

The burden of these reflections is that 
a broader unity among the free nations is at the core of our needs. 
And if we do not aspire to too much, it is also within our capacity. 
A realistic balancing of the need for new forms of international organization 
on the one hand, and our capacity to achieve them on the other, 
must be approached through the concept of "community". History 
has demonstrated many times that concerts of nations based solely on 
the negative spur of common danger are unlikely to survive when the external 
danger ceases to be dramatically urgent. Only when a concert of 
nations rests on the positive foundations of shared goals and values 
is it likely to form a viable instrument of long-range policy. It follows 
that the solution to the current disunity of the free nations is 
only to a very limited extent a matter of devising new machinery of consultation 
and coo^rdination. It is very much a matter of building 
the foundations of community.   It is for these reasons that proposals 
for a "new world order", through radical overhaul of the United 
Nations or through some sort of world federation, are utterly 
fatuous. In a recent book called "World Peace Through World Law", 
two distinguished lawyers, Grenville Clark and Louis Sohn, call 
for just such an overhaul of the U&N&, basing their case on 
the world-wide fear of a nuclear holocaust. I believe that these proposals, 
however meritorious in terms of world needs, go far beyond our 
capacity to realize them. Such proposals look to an apocalyptic act, 
a kind of Lockian "social contract" on a world-wide scale. The 
defect of these proposals is in their attempt to outrun history and their 
assumption that because something may be desirable it is also possible.

A working concept of the organic evolution of community 
must lead us in a different direction. The failures of the U&N& 
and of other international organs suggest that we have already gone beyond 
what was internationally feasible. Our problem, therefore, is to 
devise processes more modest in their aspirations, adjusted to the real 
world of sovereign nation states and diverse and hostile communities. 
The history of the U&N& demonstrates that in a pluralistic 
world we must develop processes of influence and persuasion rather than 
coercion. It is possible that international organization will ultimately 
supplant the multi-state system, but its proper function for the 
immediate future is to reform and supplement that system in order to 
render pluralism more compatible with an interdependent world. 
New machinery of coo^rdination should not be our primary objective 
in 
the foreseeable future- though perhaps the "political general staff" 
of Western leaders proposed by Sir Anthony Eden would serve 
a useful purpose. Generally, however, there is an abundance of available 
machinery of coo^rdination- in ~NATO, in O&E&C&D&, 
in the U&N& and elsewhere. The trouble with this machinery 
is that it is not used and the reason that it is not used is the absence 
of a conscious sense of community among the free nations.

Our proper objective, then, is the development of a new spirit, the 
realization of a potential community. A "concert of free nations" 
should take its inspiration from the traditions of the nineteenth century 
Concert of Europe with its common values and accepted "rules 
of the game". Constitutions of and by themselves mean little; the 
history of both the League of Nations and the United Nations demonstrates 
that. But a powerful sense of community, even with little 
or no machinery, means a great deal. That is the lesson of the nineteenth 
century.   A realistic "concert of free nations" might 
be expected to consist of an "inner community" of the North Atlantic 
nations and an "outer community" embracing much or all of the 
non-Communist world.

THE recent experiments in the new poetry-and-jazz movement 
seen by some as part of the "San Francisco Renaissance" have 
been as popular as they are notorious. "It might well start a craze 
like swallowing goldfish or pee wee golf", wrote Kenneth Rexroth 
in an explanatory note in the <Evergreen Review>, and he may have 
been right.   Under the general heading "poetry-and-jazz" widely 
divergent experiments have been carried out. Lawrence Ferlenghetti 
and Bruce Lippincott have concentrated on writing a new poetry 
for reading with jazz that is very closely related to both the musical 
forms of jazz, and the vocabulary of the musician. Even musicians themselves 
have taken to writing poetry. (Judy Tristano now has poems 
as well as ballads written for her.)   But the best known exploiters 
of the new medium are Kenneth Rexroth and Kenneth Patchen. Rexroth 
and Patchen are far apart musically and poetically in their experiments. 
Rexroth is a longtime jazz buff, a name-dropper of jazz heroes, 
and a student of traditional as well as modern jazz. In San Francisco 
he has worked with Brew Moore, Charlie Mingus, and other 
"swinging" musicians of secure reputation, thus placing himself within 
established jazz traditions, in addition to being a part of the 
San Francisco "School".   Although Patchen has given previous 
evidence of an interest in jazz, the musical group that he works 
with, the Chamber Jazz Sextet, is often ignored by jazz critics. (<Downbeat> 
did not mention the Los Angeles appearance of Patchen 
and the Sextet, although the engagement lasted over two months.) The 
stated goal of the ~CJS is the synthesis of jazz and "serious" 
music. Patchen's musicians are outsiders in established jazz circles, 
and Patchen himself has remained outside the San Francisco poetry 
group, maintaining a self-imposed isolation, even though his conversion 
to poetry-and-jazz is not as extreme or as sudden as it may first 
appear. He had read his poetry with musicians as early as 1951, and 
his entire career has been characterized by radical experiments with 
the form and presentation of his poetry. However, his subject matter 
and basic themes have remained surprisingly consistent, and these, together 
with certain key poetic images, may be traced through all his 
work, including the new jazz experiments.   From the beginning of 
his career, Patchen has adopted an anti-intellectual approach to poetry. 
His first book, <Before the Brave> (1936), is a collection 
of poems that are almost all Communistic, but after publication of this 
book he rejected 
Communism, and advocated a pacifistic anarchy, though 
retaining his revolutionary idiom. He spoke for a "proletariat" 
that included "all the lost and sick and hunted of the earth". Patchen 
believes that the world is being destroyed by power-hungry and 
money-hungry people. Running counter to the destroying forces in the 
world are all the virtues that are innate in man, the capacity for love 
and brotherhood, the ability to appreciate beauty. Beauty as well 
as love is redemptive, and Patchen preaches a kind of moral salvation. 
This salvation does not take the form of a Christian Heaven. In 
Patchen's eyes, organized churches are as odious as organized governments, 
and Christian symbols, having been taken over by the moneyed 
classes, are now agents of corruption. Patchen envisions a Dark Kingdom 
which "stands above the waters as a sentinel warning man of danger 
from his own kind". The Dark Kingdom sends Angels of Death 
and other fateful messengers down to us with stern tenderness. Actually 
Heaven and the Dark Kingdom overlap; they form two aspects of 
heavenly life after death.   Patchen has almost never used strict 
poetic forms; he has experimented instead with personal myth-making. 
Much of his earlier work was conceived in terms of a "pseudo-anthropological" 
myth reference, which is concerned with imaginary places 
and beings described in grandiloquent and travelogue-like language.

These early experiments were evidently not altogether satisfying 
to Patchen. Beginning in <Cloth of the Tempest> (1943) he experimented 
in merging poetry and visual art, using drawings to carry long 
narrative segments of a story, as in <Sleepers Awake>, and constructing 
elaborate "poems-in-drawing-and-type" in which it is impossible 
to distinguish between 
the "art" and the poetry. Art "makings" 
or pseudo-anthropological myths did not meet all of Patchen's requirements 
for a poetic frame of reference. Many of his poems purported 
to be exactly contemporary and political; so during the period approximately 
from 1941 to 1946, Patchen often used private detective stories 
as a myth reference, and the "private eye" as a myth hero. Speaking 
in terms of sociological stereotype, the "private eye" might 
appeal to the poet in search of a myth for many reasons. The private 
detective (at least in the minds of listeners and readers all over 
the country) is an individual hero fighting injustice. He is usually 
something of an underdog, he must battle the organized police force as 
well as recognized criminals. The private detective must rely, as the 
Youngest Son or Trickster Hero does in primitive myth, on his wits. 
The private detective is militant against injustice, a humorous 
and ironic explorer of the underworld; most important to Patchen, he 
was a non-literary hero, and very contemporary. In 1945, probably almost 
every American not only knew who Sam Spade was, but had some 
kind of emotional feeling about him. In <The Memoirs of a Shy Pornographer> 
(1945) Patchen exploited this national sentiment by making 
his hero, Albert Budd, a private detective.   But since 1945, 
Sam Spade has undergone a metamorphosis; he has become Friday 
on <Dragnet>, a mouthpiece of arbitrary police authority. He has, 
like so many other secular and religious culture symbols, gone over to 
the side of the ruling classes. Obviously, the "private eye" can 
have no more appeal for Patchen. To fill the job of contemporary hero 
in 1955, Patchen needed someone else.   It was logical that 
he would come up with the figure of the modern jazz musician. The revolution 
in jazz that took place around 1949, the evolution from the "bebop" 
school of Dizzy Gillespie to the "cool" sound of Miles 
Davis and Lennie Tristano, Lee Konitz, and the whole legend of 
Charlie Parker, had made an impression on many academic and literary 
men. The differentiation between the East Coast and West Coast schools 
of jazz, the differences between the "hard bop" school of Rollins, 
and the "cerebral" experiments of Tristano, Konitz and 
Marsh, the general differences in the mores of white and negro musicians, 
all had become fairly well known to certain segments of the public. 
The immense amount of interest that the new jazz had for the younger 
generation must have impressed him, and he began working toward the 
merger of jazz and poetry, as he had previously attempted the union 
of graphic art and poetry. In addition to his experiments in reading 
poetry to jazz, Patchen is beginning to use the figure of the modern 
jazz musician as a myth hero in the same way he used the figure of the 
private detective a decade ago. In this respect, his approach to poetry-and-jazz 
is in marked contrast to Kenneth Rexroth's. Rexroth 
uses many of his early poems when he reads to jazz, including many of 
his Chinese and Japanese translations; he usually draws some kind 
of comparison with the jazz tradition and the poem he is reading- 
for instance, he draws the parallel between a poem he reads about an Oriental 
courtesan waiting for the man she loves, and who never comes, 
and the old blues chants of Ma Rainy and other Negro singers- but 
usually the comparison is specious. Rexroth may sometimes achieve an 
effective juxtaposition, but he rarely makes any effort to capture any 
jazz "feeling" in the text of his poems, relying on his very competent 
musicians to supply this feeling.   Patchen does read some 
of his earlier works to music, but he has written an entire book of 
short poems which seem to be especially suited for reading with jazz. 
These new poems have only a few direct references to jazz and jazz musicians, 
but they show changes in Patchen's approach to his poetry, 
for he has tried to enter into and understand the emotional attitude 
of the jazz musician.   It is difficult to draw the line between 
stereotype and the reality of the jazz musician. Everyone knows that 
private detectives in real life are not like Sam Spade and Pat Novak, 
but the real and the imaginary musician are closely linked. Seen 
by the public, the musician is the underdog <par excellence>. He 
is forced to play for little money, and must often take another job to 
live. His approach to music is highly individualistic; the accent 
is on improvisation rather than arrangements. While he is worldly, the 
musician often cultivates public attitudes of childlike astonishment 
and naivete. The musician is non-intellectual and non-verbal; he 
is far from being a literary hero, yet is a creative artist. Many of 
these aspects will be seen as comparable to those of the ideal detective, 
but where the detective is active and militant, the jazz musician 
is passive, almost a victim of society. In order to write with authority 
either about musicians, or as a musician, Patchen would have to soft 
pedal his characteristically outspoken anger, and change (at least 
for the purposes of this poetry) from a revolutionary to a victim. He 
must become one who knows all about the injustice in the world, but 
who declines doing anything about it.   This involves a shift in 
Patchen's attitude and it is a first step toward writing a new jazz 
poetry. He has shown considerable ingenuity in adapting his earliest 
symbols and devices to the new work, and the fact that he has kept a 
body of constant symbols through all of his experiments gives an unexpected 
continuity to his poetry. Perhaps tracing some of these more important 
symbols through the body of his work will show that Patchen's 
new poetry is well thought out, and remains within the mainstream 
of his work, while being suited to a new form.   Henry Miller characterized 
Patchen as a "man of anger and light". His revolutionary 
anger is apparent in most of his early poems. The following passage 
from "The Hangman's Great Hands" illustrates the directness 
of this anger. "Anger won't help. I was born angry. Angry 
that my father was being burnt alive in the mills; Angry that none 
of us knew anything but filth and poverty. Angry because I was that 
very one somebody was supposed To be fighting for".   This 
angry and exasperated stance which Patchen has maintained in his poetry 
for almost fifteen years has been successfully modulated into a kind 
of woe that is as effective as anger and still expresses his disapproval 
of the modern world. In his recent book, <Hurray for Anything> 
(1957), one of the most important short poems- and it is the title 
poem for one of the long jazz arrangements- is written for recital 
with jazz. Although it does not follow the metrical rules for a blues 
to be sung, the phrases themselves carry a blues feeling. "I 
WENT TO THE CITY And there I did Weep, Men a-crowing likes asses, 
And living like sheep. <Oh, can't hold the han' of my love! 
Can't hold her little white han!> Yes, I went to the city, And 
there I did bitterly cry, Men out of touch with the earth, And 
with never a glance at the sky. <Oh, can't hold the han' of my love! 
Can't hold her pure little han'!>" Patchen is still 
the rebel, but he writes in a doleful, mournful tone. Neither of these 
poems is an aberration; each is so typical that it represents a prominent 
trend in the poet's development.   Patchen is repeatedly 
preoccupied with death. In many of his poems, death comes by train: 
a strongly evocative visual image. Perhaps Patchen was once involved 
in a train accident, and this passage from <First Will and Testament> 
may have been how the accident appeared to the poet when he 
first saw it- if he did: "  Lord love us, look at all the 
disconnected limbs floating hereabouts, like bloody feathers at that- 
and all the eyes are talking and all the hair are moving and all the 
tongue are in all the cheek **h".

Let us see just how typical Krim is. He is New York-born 
and Jewish. He spent one year at the University of North Carolina 
because Thomas Wolfe went there. He returned to New York to work 
for <The New Yorker,> to edit a Western pulp, to "duck the war 
in the ~OWI", to write publicity for Paramount Pictures and 
commentary for a newsreel, then he began his career as critic for various 
magazines. Now he has abandoned all that to be A Writer. I do 
not want to quibble about typicality; in a certain sense, one manner 
of experience will be typical of any given group while another will 
not. 
But I've got news for Krim: he's not typical, he's pretty special. 
His may typify a certain kind of postwar New York experience, 
but his experience is certainly not typical of his "generation's". 
In any case, who ever thought that New York is typical of anything?

Men of Krim's age, aspirations, and level of sophistication 
were typically involved in politics before the war. They did 
not "duck the war" but they fought in it, however reluctantly; 
they sweated out some kind of formal education; they read widely and 
eclectically; 
they did not fall into pseudo-glamorous jobs on pseudo-glamorous 
magazines, but they did whatever nasty thing they could get 
in order to eat; they found out who they were and what they could do, 
then within the limits of their talent they did it. They did not worry 
about "experience", because experience thrust itself upon them. 
And they traveled out of New York. Only a native New Yorker could 
believe that New York is now or ever was a literary center. It 
is a publishing and public relations center, but these very facts prevent 
it from being a literary center because writers dislike provincialism 
and untruth. Krim's typicality consists only in his New Yorker's 
view that New York is the world; he displays what outlanders 
call the New York mind, a state that the subject is necessarily unable 
to perceive in himself. The New York mind is two parts abstraction 
and one part misinformation about the rest of the country and in fact 
the world. In his fulminating against the literary world, Krim is 
really struggling with the New Yorker in himself, but it's a losing 
battle.   Closely related to his illusions about his typicality 
is Krim's complicated feeling about his Jewishness. He writes, 
"Most of my friends and I were Jewish; we were also literary; 
the combination of the Jewish intellectual tradition and the sensibility 
needed to be a writer created in my circle the most potent and 
incredible intellectual-literary ambition I have ever seen or could ever 
have imagined. Within themselves, just as people, my friends were 
often tortured and unappeasably bitter about being the offspring of this 
unhappily unique-ingrown-screwedup breed; their reading and thinking 
gave 
an extension to their normal blushes about appearing 'Jewish' 
in subway, bus, racetrack, movie house, any of the public places that 
used to make the Jew of my generation self-conscious (heavy thinkers 
walking across Seventh Avenue without their glasses on, willing to 
dare the trucks as long as they didn't look like the ikey-kikey caricature 
of the Yiddish intellectual) **h". At other points in his 
narrative, Krim associates Jewishness with unappeasable literary ambition, 
with abstraction, with his personal turning aside from the good, 
the true, and the beautiful of fiction in the manner of James T& 
Farrell to the international, the false, and the inflated. 
Krim says, in short, that he is a suffering Jew. The only possible 
answer to that is, I am a suffering Franco-Irishman. We all love 
to suffer, but some of us love to suffer more than others. Had Krim 
gone 
farther from New York than Chapel Hill, he might have discovered 
that large numbers of American Jews do not find his New York version 
of the Jews' lot remotely recognizable. More important is the 
simple human point that all men suffer, and that it is a kind of 
anthropological-religious 
pride on the part of the Jew to believe that his suffering 
is more poignant than mine or anyone else's. This is not to 
deny the existence of pogroms and ghettos, but only to assert that these 
horrors 
have had an effect on the nerves of people who did not experience 
them, that among the various side effects is the local hysteria 
of Jewish writers and intellectuals who cry out from confusion, which 
they call oppression and pain. In their stupidity and arrogance they 
believe they are called upon to remind the gentile continually of pogroms 
and ghettos. Some of us have imagination and sensibility too. 
Finally, there is the undeniable fact that some of the finest American 
fiction is being written by Jews, but it is not <Jewish> fiction; 
Saul Bellow and Bernard Malamud, through intellectual toughness, 
perception, through experience in fact, have obviously liberated 
themselves from any sentimental Krim self-indulgence they might have 
been tempted to.   Krim's main attack is upon the aesthetic and 
the publishing apparatus of American literary culture in our day. 
Krim was able to get an advance for a novel, and time and opportunity 
to write at Yaddo, but it was no good. "I had natural sock", he 
says, 'as a storyteller and was precociously good at description, dialogue, 
and most of the other staples of the fiction-writer's trade 
but I was bugged by a mammoth complex of thoughts and feelings that 
prevented me from doing more than just diddling the surface of sustained 
fiction-writing". And again, "how can you write when you haven't 
yet read 'Bartleby the Scrivener'"? Krim came to believe 
that "the novel as a form had outlived its vital meaning". His 
"articulate Jewish friends" convinced him that education (read "reading") 
was "a must". He moved in a "highly intellectual" 
group in Greenwich Village in the late forties, becoming "internationalized" 
overnight. Then followed a period in which he wrote reviews 
for <The New York Times Book Review, The Commonweal, Commentary,> 
had a small piece in <Partisan Review,> and moved on 
to <Hudson, The Village Voice,> and <Exodus>. The work for 
<Commonweal> 
was more satisfying than work for <Commentary> "because 
of the staff's tiptoeing fear of making a booboo". <Commentary> 
was a mere suburb of <Partisan Review,> the arch-enemy. Both 
magazines were "rigid with <reactionary> what-will-T& S& Eliot-or-Martin 
Buber-think? fear **h". <Partisan> has failed, 
Krim says, for being "snob-clannish, overcerebral, Europeanish, aristocratically 
alienated" from the U&S&. It was "the creation 
of a monstrous historical period wherein it thought it had to synthesize 
literature and politics and avant-garde art of every kind with 
its writers crazily trying to outdo each other in Spenglerian inclusiveness 
**h". <Kenyon, Sewanee,> and <Hudson> operated in an "Anglo-Protestant 
New Critical chill"; their example caused Krim 
and his friends to put on "Englishy airs, affect all sorts of 
impressive 
scholarship and social-register unnaturalness **h in order to 
slip through their narrow transoms and get into their pages". <Qui 
s'excuse s'accuse,> as the French Jewish intellectuals used 
to say.   Through all this raving, Krim is performing a traditional 
and by now boring rite, the attack on intelligence, upon the largely 
successful attempt of the magazines he castigates to liberate American 
writing from local color and other varieties of romantic corn. God 
knows that <Partisan> and the rest often were, and remain, guilty 
of intellectual flatulence. Sociological jargon, Germano-Slavic 
approximations to English, third-rate but modish fiction, and outrages 
to common sense have often disfigured <Partisan,> and in lesser degree, 
the other magazines on the list. What Krim ignores, in his contempt 
for history and for accuracy, is that these magazines, <Partisan> 
foremost, brought about a genuine revolution in the American mind 
from the mid-thirties to approximately 1950. The most obvious characteristic 
of contemporary American writing, apart from the beat nonsense, 
is its cosmopolitanism.   The process of cosmopolitanism 
had begun in earnest about 1912, but the First War and the depression 
virtually stalled that process in its tracks. Without the good magazines, 
without their book reviews, their hospitality to European writers, 
without above all their awareness of literary standards, we might 
very well have had a generation of Krim's heroes- Wolfes, Farrells, 
Dreisers, and I might add, Sandburgs and Frosts and MacLeishes 
in verse- and then where would we be? Screwed, stewed, and tattooed, 
as Krim might say after reading a book about sailors. When 
<Partisan> and <Kenyon> set up shop, Mencken was still accepted 
as an arbiter of taste (remember Hergesheimer?), George Jean Nathan 
and Alexander Woollcott were honored in odd quarters, and the whole 
Booth Tarkington, Willa Catheter (<sic>), Pearl Buck, Amy 
Lowell, William Lyon Phelps atmosphere lay thick as Los Angeles 
smog over the country.   Politics, economics, sociology- the 
entire area of life that lies between literature and what Krim calls 
"experience"- urgently needed to be dug into. The universities 
certainly were not doing it, nor were the popular magazines of the day. 
This <Partisan> above all did; if it had never printed a word 
of literature its contribution to the politico-sociological area would 
still be historic. But it did print good verse and good fiction. If 
the editors sometimes dozed and printed pretentious, New York-mind 
dross, they also printed Malraux, Silone, Chiaromonte, Gide, Bellow, 
Robert Lowell, Francis Fergusson, Mary McCarthy, Delmore 
Schwartz, Mailer, Elizabeth Hardwick, Eleanor Clark, and a host 
of other good writers. <Partisan Review> and the other literary magazines 
helped to educate, in the best sense, an entire generation. That 
these magazines also deluded the Krims of the world is unfortunate 
but inevitable. It is a fact of life that magazines are edited by 
groups: they have to be or they wouldn't be published at all. And 
it is also a fact of life that there will always be youngish half-educated 
people around who will be dazzled by the glitter of what looks like 
a literary movement. (There are no literary movements, there are 
only writers doing their work. Literary movements are the creation of 
pimps who live off writers.) When Krim says "mine was as severe a 
critical-intellectual environment as can be imagined", he is off his 
rocker. He indicates that he has none of the disciplines that criticism 
requires, including education; the result was his inevitable bedazzlement 
through ignorance. He wasn't being educated in those Village 
bull-sessions, as he claims. No one was ever educated through bull-sessions 
in anything other than, to quote him again, "perfumed bullshit". 
Only a New York hick would expect to find the literary 
life in Greenwich Village at any point later than Walt Whitman's 
day. The "highly intellectual **h minds" that Krim says he encountered 
in the Village did their work in spite of, not because of, any 
Village atmosphere. But Krim's complaint is important because not 
only in New York, but in other cities and in universities throughout 
this country, young and not so young men at this moment are being 
bedazzled by half-digested ideas. Those who have quality will outgrow 
the experience; the rest will turn beat, or into dentists, or into 
beat dentists.   For the sad truth is that while one might write 
well without having read "Bartleby the Scrivener", one is more 
likely to write well if one has read it, and much else. The most appalling 
aspect of Krim's piece is his reflection of the beat aesthetic. 
He mentions the beats only once, when he refers to their having "revived 
through mere power and abandonment and the unwillingness to commit 
death in life some idea of a decent equivalent between verbal expression 
and actual experience **h", but the entire narrative is written 
in the tiresome vocabulary of that lost and dying cause, and in the 
sprung syntax that is supposed to supplant our mother tongue. Krim's 
aesthetic combines anti-intellectualism, conscious and unconscious 
nai^vete, and a winsome reliance upon the "natural" and upon "experience". 
Ideas are the "thruway to nowhere". "My touchstones 
**h had been strictly literature and, humanly enough, <American> 
literature (because that was what I wanted to write)". He alludes 
to something called "direct writing", and he finds that criticism 
gets in the way of his "truer, realer, imaginative bounce". 
There had been signs and portents like the regular toppling over and 
defacing of the bust of Lauro di Bosis near the Villa Lante and in 
the Gianicolo.   Something was happening all right, slowly it 
is true, but you could feel it. The Italians felt it. Little things. 
An Italian poet had noticed plainclothes policemen lounging around 
the area of Quirinal Palace, the first time since the war. At least 
they hadn't stepped up and asked to see papers in the hated, flat, 
dialect mispronunciation of Mussolini's home district- <Dogumenti, 
per favore>. But, who knew, that might be coming one of these days. 
There were other Italians who still bore scars they had earned 
in police station basements, resisting. They laughed and, true to national 
form and manners, never talked long or solemnly on any subject 
at 
all, but some of them worried out loud about short memories and ghosts.

We saw Giuseppe Berto at a party once in a while, tall, lean, 
nervous and handsome, and, in our opinion, the best novelist of them 
all except Pavese, and Pavese is dead. Berto's <The Sky Is 
Red> had been a small masterpiece and in its special way the best book 
to come out of the war. Now he was married to a beautiful girl, had 
a small son, and lived in an expensive apartment and worked for the 
movies. On his desk was a slowly accumulating treatment and script of 
<The Count of Monte Cristo>. On his bookshelves were some of 
the latest American novels, including Bellow's <Seize the Day,> 
but he hadn't read them (they were sent by American publishers) and 
wasn't especially interested in what the American writers were up 
to. He was interested in Robert Musil's <The Man without Qualities>. 
So were a lot of other people. He was interested in Italo 
Svevo. He was thinking his way into a new novel, a big one, one that 
people had been waiting for. It was going to be hard going all the 
way because he hadn't written seriously for a while, except for a few 
stories, was tired of the old method of <realismo> he had so successfully 
used in <The Sky Is Red>. This one was going to be different. 
He had bought a little piece of property down along the coast 
of the hard country of Calabria that he knew so well. He was going 
to do one or two more films for cash and then chuck it all, leave Rome 
and its intellectual cliques and money-fed life, go back to Calabria.

Berto seemed worried, too. He knew all about it and had put 
it down in journal form in <The War in a Black Shirt>, a wonderful 
book not, for some strange reason, published in the U&S&. He 
knew all about the appeal of a black shirt and jackboots to a poor, 
southern, peasant boy. He knew all about the infection and the fever, 
and, too, the moment of realization when he saw for himself, threw up 
his hands and quit, ended the war as a prisoner in Texas. Berto knew 
all about Fascism. So did his friend, the young novelist Rimanelli. 
Rimanelli is tough and square-built and adventurous, says what he 
thinks. He had put it down in a war novel, <The Day of the Lion>. 
These people were not talking much about it, but you, a foreigner, 
sensed their apprehension and disappointment.   So there we were 
talking around and about it. The English lady said she had to go 
to Vienna for a while. It was a pity because she had planned to lay 
a wreath at the foot of the Garibaldi statue, towering over Rome in 
spectacular benediction from the highpoint of the Gianicolo. Around 
that statue in the green park where children play and lovers walk in twos 
and there is a glowing view of the whole city, in that park are the 
rows of marble busts of Garibaldi's fallen men, the ones who one 
day rushed out of the Porta San Pancrazio and, under fire all the way, 
up the long, straight narrow lane to take, then lose the high ground 
of the Villa Doria Pamphili. When they lost it, the French artillery 
moved in, and that was the end for Garibaldi that time, on 30 
April 1849. Once out of the gate they had charged straight up the narrow 
lane. We had walked it many times and shivered, figuring what a 
fish barrel it had been for the French. Now the park is filled with 
marble busts and all the streets in the immediate area have the full and 
proper names of the men who fell.   We were at a party once and 
heard an idealistic young European call that awful charge <glorious>. 
Our companion was a huge, plain-spoken American sculptor who had 
been a sixteen-year-old rifleman all across France in 1944. He said 
it was stupid butchery to order men to make a charge like that, no 
matter who gave the order and what for.   "Oh, it would be butchery 
all right", 
the European said. "We would see it that way, but 
it was glorious <then>. It was the last time in history anybody could 
do something gloriously like that".   I thought: Who is 
older now? Old world and new world.   The sculptor looked at 
him, bugeyed and amazed, angry. He had made an assault once with 180 
men. It was a picked assault company. They went up against an ~SS 
unit of comparable size, over a little rise of ground, over an open 
field. Object- a village crossroads. They made it, killed every last 
one of the Krauts, took the village on schedule. When it was over, 
eight of his company were still alive and all eight were wounded. The 
whole thing, from the moment when they jumped heavily off the trucks, 
spread out and moved into position just behind the cover of that slight 
rise of ground and then jumped off, took maybe between twenty and 
thirty minutes. The sculptor looked at him, let the color drain out 
of his face, grinned, and looked down into his drink, a bad Martini 
made with raw Italian gin.   "Bullshit", he said softly.

"Excuse me", the European said. "I am not familiar with 
the expression".   The apartment where we were talking that afternoon 
in March faced onto the street Garibaldi's men had charged 
up and along. Across the way from the apartment building is a ruined 
house, shot to hell that day in 1849, and left that way as a memorial. 
There is a bronze wreath on the wall. Like everything else in Rome, 
ruins and monuments alike, that house is lived in. I have seen diapers 
strung across the ruined roof.   The English lady really 
wanted to put a wreath on the Garibaldi monument on the 30th of April. 
She had her reasons for this. For one thing, there wasn't going 
to be any ceremony at all this year. There were a few reasons for that, 
too: Garibaldi had been taken up and exploited by the Communists 
nowadays. Therefore the government wanted no part of him. (It is 
sort of as if our government should decide to disown Washington or Lincoln 
for the same reason.) And then there were ecclesiastical matters, 
the matter of Garibaldi's anti-clericalism. There was a new Pope 
and the Vatican was making itself heard and felt these days. As 
it happens the English lady is a good Catholic herself, but of more 
liberal political persuasion. Nothing was going to be done this year 
to celebrate Garibaldi's bold and unsuccessful defense of Rome. All 
that the English lady wanted to do was to walk up to the monument 
and lay a wreath at its base. This would show that somebody, even a foreigner 
living in Rome, cared. And then there were other things. Some 
of the marble busts in the park are of young Englishmen who fought 
and died for Garibaldi. She also mentioned leaving a little bunch 
of flowers at the bust of Lauro di Bosis.   It is hard for me 
to know how I feel about Lauro di Bosis. I suffer from mixed feelings. 
He was a well-to-do, handsome, and sensitive young poet. His bust 
shows an intense, mustached, fine-featured face. He flew over Rome 
one day during the early days of Mussolini and scattered leaflets over 
the city, denouncing the Fascists. He was never heard of again. 
He is thought either to have been killed by the Fascists as soon as 
he landed or to have killed himself by flying out to sea and crashing 
his plane. He was, thus, an early and spectacular victim. And there 
is something so wonderfully romantic about it all. He really didn't 
know how to fly. He had crashed on take off once before. Gossip had 
it (for gossip is the soul of Rome) that a famous American dancer 
of the time had paid for both the planes. It was absurd and dramatic. 
It is remembered and has been commemorated by a bust in a park and a 
square in the city which was renamed Piazzo Lauro di Bosis after the 
war. Most Romans, even some postmen, know it by the old name.

Faced with a gesture like Di Bosis', I find usually that my 
sentiments are closer to those of my sculptor friend. The things that 
happened in police station basements were dirty, grubby, and most often 
anonymous. No poetry, no airplanes, no dancers. That is how the real 
routine of resistance goes on, and its strength is directly proportionate 
to the number of insignificant people who can let themselves be 
taken to pieces, piece by piece, without quitting. It is an ugly business 
and there are few, if any, wreaths for them. I keep thinking 
of a young woman I knew during the Occupation in Austria. She was 
from Prague. She had been picked up by the Russians, questioned in 
connection with some pamphlets, sentenced to life imprisonment for espionage. 
She escaped, crawled through the usual mine fields, under barbed 
wire, was shot at, swam a river, and we finally picked her up in Linz. 
She showed us what had happened to her. No airplanes, no Nathan 
Hale statements. Just no spot, not even a dimesize spot, on her whole 
body that wasn't bruised, bruise on top of bruise, from beatings. 
I understand very well about Lauro di Bosis and how his action 
is symbolic. The trouble is that like many symbols it doesn't seem 
a very realistic one.   The English lady wanted to pay tribute 
to Garibaldi and to Lauro di Bosis, but she wasn't going to be here 
to do it. Were any of us interested enough in the idea to do it for 
her, by proxy so to speak? There was a pretty thorough silence at 
that point. My spoon stirring coffee, banging against the side of the 
cup, sounded as loud as a bell. I thought: What the hell? Why 
not? I said I would do it for her.   I had some reasons, too. 
I admire the English lady. I hate embarrassing silences and have 
been known to make a fool out of myself just to prevent one. I also 
had and have feelings about Garibaldi. Like every Southerner I can't 
escape the romantic tradition of brave defeats, forlorn lost causes. 
Though Garibaldi's fight was small shakes compared to Pickett's 
Charge- which, like all Southerners, I view in almost Miltonic 
terms, fallen angels, etc&- I associated the two. And to top 
it all I am often sentimental on purpose, trying to prove to myself 
that I am not <afraid of sentiment>. So much for all that. 
The English lady was pleased and enthusiastic. She gave me the names 
of some people who would surely help pay for the flowers and might even 
march up to the monument with me. The idea of the march pleased her. 
Maybe twenty, thirty, fifty. **h Maybe I could call Rimanelli 
at the magazine <Rottosei> where he worked.

The Office of Business Economics (~OBE) of the U&S& 
Department of Commerce provides basic measures of the national economy 
and current analysis of short-run changes in the economic situation 
and business outlook. It develops and analyzes the national income, 
balance of international payments, and many other business indicators. 
Such measures are essential to its job of presenting business and 
Government with the facts required to meet the objective of expanding 
business and improving the operation of the economy. _CONTACT_ 
For further information contact Director, Office of Business Economics, 
U&S& Department of Commerce, Washington 25, D&C&. 
_PRINTED MATERIAL_ Economic information is made available to businessmen 
and economists promptly through the monthly <Survey of Current 
Business> and its weekly supplement. This periodical, including 
weekly statistical supplements, is available for $4 per year from Commerce 
Field Offices or Superintendent of Documents, U&S& 
Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D&C&. 

#TECHNICAL 
ASSISTANCE TO SMALL BUSINESS COMMUNITY#

The Small Business Administration 
(~SBA) provides guidance and advice on sources of technical 
information relating to small business management and research 
and development of products. _SMALL BUSINESS MANAGEMENT_ Practical 
management problems and their suggested solutions are dealt with in 
a series of ~SBA publications. These publications, written especially 
for the managers or owners of small businesses, indirectly aid in 
community development programs. They are written by specialists in 
numerous types of business enterprises, cover a wide range of subjects, 
and are directed to the needs and interests of the small firm.

~SBA offers Administrative Management Courses, which are designed 
to improve the management efficiency and "know-how" of small 
business concerns within a community. ~SBA cosponsors these courses 
with educational institutions and community groups.   Through 
the ~SBA's Management Counseling Program, practical, personalized 
advice on sound management principles is available upon request 
to both prospective and established businessmen in a community. One-day 
conferences covering some specific phase of business management, 
also part of the continuing activities of the Small Business Administration, 
aid community economic development programs. These short, "streamlined" 
meetings usually are sponsored by local banks, Chambers 
of Commerce, trade associations, or other civic organizations. _PRODUCT 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT_ Production specialists in ~SBA 
regional offices are available to help individual small business concerns 
with technical production problems. Guidance and advice are available 
on new product research and development; new product potential; 
processing methods; product and market developments; new industrial 
uses for raw, semi-processed and waste, materials; and industrial 
uses 
for agricultural products.   ~SBA serves also as a clearing 
house for information on products and processes particularly adaptable 
for exploitation by small firms. This may be helpful in improving the 
competitive position of established firms through diversification and 
expansion or through more economical utilization of plant capacity. 
_PRODUCTION ASSISTANCE_ Production specialists are available in 
~SBA regional offices to help individual small business concerns 
with technical production problems. These problems frequently arise 
where a firm is making items for the Government not directly along the 
lines of its normal civilian business or where the Government specifications 
require operations that the firm did not understand when it 
undertook the contract. Production assistance often takes the form of 
locating tools or materials which are urgently needed. Advice is given 
also on problems of plant location and plant space. _PROPERTY SALES 
ASSISTANCE_ The property sales assistance program is designed to 
assist small business concerns that may wish to buy property offered 
for sale by the Federal Government. Under this program, property sales 
specialists in the Small Business Administration regional offices 
help small business concerns to locate Federal property for sale and 
insure that small firms have the opportunity to bid competitively for 
surplus personal and real property and certain natural resources, including 
timber from the national forests.   ~SBA works closely 
with the principal property disposal installations of the Federal 
Government in reviewing proposed sales programs and identifying those 
types of property that small business concerns are most likely to be 
interested in purchasing. Proposed property sales of general interest 
to small business concerns are publicized through ~SBA regional 
news releases, and by "flyers" directed to the small business concerns. 
Each ~SBA regional office also maintains a "want" list 
of surplus property, principally machinery and equipment, desired by 
small business concerns in its area. When suitable equipment is located 
by the ~SBA representative, the small business concern is contacted 
and advised on when, where, and how to bid on such property. 
_FACILITIES INVENTORY_ Section 8 (~b) (2) of the Small Business 
Act, as amended, authorizes the ~SBA to make a complete inventory 
of the productive facilities of small business concerns. The Administration 
maintains a productive facilities inventory of small business 
industrial concerns that have voluntarily registered. It is kept 
in each Regional office for the small firms within the region. Purpose 
of this inventory is to include all eligible productive facilities 
in ~SBA's facilities register so that the small business concerns 
may have an opportunity to avail themselves of the services authorized 
by the Congress in establishing the Small Business Administration. 
These services include procurement and technical assistance and 
notice of surplus sales and invitations to bid on Government contracts 
for products and services within the registrants' field of operations. 
~SBA can make complete facilities inventories of all small business 
concerns in labor surplus areas within budgetary and staff limitations. 
_CONTACT_ For further information, contact Small Business 
Administration Regional Offices in Atlanta, Ga&; Boston, 
Mass&; Chicago, Ill&; Cleveland, Ohio; Dallas, Tex&; 
Denver, Colo&; Detroit, Mich&; Kansas City, Mo&; 
Los Angeles, Calif&; Minneapolis, Minn&; New York, 
N&Y&; Philadelphia, Pa&; Richmond, Va&; San Francisco, 
Calif&; and Seattle, Wash&. Branch Offices are located 
in other large cities. _PRINTED MATERIAL_ <Small Business Administration, 
What It Is, What It Does, ~SBA Services 
for Community Economic Development>, and various other useful publications 
on currently important management, technical production, and 
marketing topics are available, on request, from Small Business Administration, 
Washington 25, D&C&. <New Product Introduction 
for Small Business Owners>, 30 cents; <Developing and Selling 
New Products>, 45 cents; <U&S& Government Purchasing, 
Specifications, and Sales Directory>, 60 cents, are available from 
the Superintendent of Documents, U&S& Government Printing 
Office, Washington 25, D&C&. 

#LOANS#

_TO SMALL BUSINESS_ 
~SBA makes loans to individual small business firms, providing 
them with financing when it is not otherwise available through private 
lending sources on reasonable terms. Many such loans have been made 
to establish small concerns or to aid in their growth, thereby contributing 
substantially to community development programs. _LOAN POLICIES._ 
~SBA loans, which may be made to small manufacturers, small 
business pools, wholesalers, retailers, service establishments and 
other small businesses (when financing is not otherwise available to them 
on reasonable terms), are to finance business construction, conversion, 
or expansion; the purchase of equipment, facilities, machinery, 
supplies, or materials; or to supply working capital. Evidence that 
other sources of financing are unavailable must be provided. _TYPES 
OF LOANS._ ~SBA business loans are of two types: "participation" 
and "direct". Participation loans are those made jointly 
by the ~SBA and banks or other private lending institutions. Direct 
loans are those made by ~SBA alone. To qualify for either 
type of loan, an applicant must be a small business or approved small 
business "pool" and must meet certain credit requirements. A small 
business is defined as one which is independently owned and operated 
and which is not dominant in its field. In addition, the ~SBA 
uses such criteria as number of employees and dollar volume of the business. 
_CREDIT REQUIREMENTS._ The credit requirements stipulate that 
the applicant must have the ability to operate the business successfully 
and have enough capital in the business so that, with loan assistance 
from the ~SBA, it will be able to operate on a sound financial 
basis. A proposed loan must be for sound purposes or sufficiently 
secured so as to assure a reasonable chance of repayment. The record 
of past earnings and prospects for the future must indicate it has the 
ability to repay the loan out of current and anticipated income. _LOAN 
AMOUNT._ The amount which may be borrowed from the ~SBA 
depends on how much is required to carry out the intended purpose of the 
loan. The maximum loan which ~SBA may make to any one borrower 
is $350,000. Business loans generally are repayable in regular installments- 
usually monthly, including interest at the rate of 5-1/2 percent 
per annum on the unpaid balance- and have a maximum maturity 
of 10 years; the term of loans for working capital is 6 years. _CONTACT_ 
For further information, contact ~SBA Regional Offices 
in Atlanta, Ga&; Boston, Mass&; Chicago, Ill&; Cleveland, 
Ohio; Dallas, Tex&; Denver, Colo&; Detroit, Mich&; 
Kansas City, Mo&; Los Angeles, Calif&; Minneapolis, 
Minn&; New York, N&Y&; Philadelphia, Pa&; 
Richmond, Va&; San Francisco, Calif&; and Seattle, Wash&. 
Branch Offices are located in other large cities. _PRINTED MATERIAL_ 
<Small Business Administration, What It Is, What It 
Does; ~SBA Business Loans;> and <Small Business 
Pooling> are available, on request, from Small Business Administration, 
Washington 25, D&C&, and its regional offices. _TO COOPERATIVES_ 
The Farm Credit Administration, an independent agency 
located within the Department of Agriculture, supervises and coordinates 
a cooperative credit system for agriculture. The system is composed 
of three credit services, Federal Land Banks and National Farm 
Loan Associations, Federal Intermediate (short-term) Credit Banks, 
and Banks for Cooperatives. This system provides long- and short-term 
credit to farmers and their cooperative marketing, purchasing, 
and business service organizations.   As a source of investment 
capital, the system is beneficial to local communities and encourages 
the development of industries in rural areas. The credit provdied 
by the first two services in the system outlined above is primarily for 
general agricultural purposes. The third credit service, Banks for 
Cooperatives, exists under authority of the Farm Credit Act of 1933. 
The Banks for Cooperatives were established to provide a permanent 
source of credit on a sound basis for farmers' cooperatives. _TYPES 
OF LOANS._ Three distinct classes of loans are made available 
to farmers' cooperatives by the Banks for Cooperatives: Commodity 
loans, operating capital loans, and facility loans. _ELIGIBILITY._ 
To be eligible to borrow from a Bank for Cooperatives, a cooperative 
must be an association in which farmers act together in processing 
and marketing farm products, purchasing farm supplies, or furnishing 
farm business services, and must meet the requirements set forth 
in the Farm Credit Act of 1933, as amended. _INTEREST RATES._ 
Interest rates are determined by the board of directors of the bank with 
the approval of the Farm Credit Administration. _CONTACT_ For 
further information, contact the Bank for Cooperatives serving the 
region, or the Farm Credit Administration, Research and Information 
Division, Washington 25, D&C&. _PRINTED MATERIAL_ Available, 
on request, from U&S& Department of Agriculture, Washington 
25, D&C&, are: <Cooperative Farm Credit Can Assist 
in Rural Development> (Circular No& 44), and <The Cooperative 
Farm Credit System> (Circular No& 36-~A). 

#MINERALS 
EXPLORATION#

To encourage exploration for domestic sources of minerals, 
the Office of Minerals Exploration (~OME) of the U&S& 
Department of the Interior offers financial assistance to firms 
and individuals who desire to explore their properties or claims for 
1 or more of the 32 mineral commodities listed in the ~OME regulations. 
_REQUIREMENTS_ This help is offered to applicants who ordinarily 
would not undertake the exploration under present conditions or 
circumstances at their sole expense and who are unable to obtain funds 
from commercial sources on reasonable terms. Each applicant is required 
to own or have sufficient interest in the property to be explored. 
The Government will contract with an eligible applicant to pay up 
to one-half of the cost of approved exploration work as it progresses. 
The applicant pays the rest of the cost, but his own time spent on the 
work and charges for the use of equipment which he owns may be applied 
toward his share of the cost. _REPAYMENT_ Funds contributed by 
the Government are repaid by a royalty on production from the property. 
If nothing is produced, there is no obligation to repay. A 5-percent 
royalty is paid on any production during the period the contract 
is in effect; if the Government certifies that production may be 
possible from the property, the royalty obligation continues for the 
10-year period usually specified in the contract or until the Government's 
contribution is repaid with interest. The royalty applies to 
both principal and interest, but it never exceeds 5 percent. _CONTACT_ 
Information, application forms, and assistance in filing may be 
obtained from the Office of Minerals Exploration, U&S& Department 
of the Interior, Washington 25, D&C&, or from the appropriate 
regional office listed below:

In most of the less developed countries, however, such programing 
is at best inadequate and at worst nonexistent. Only a very few of 
the more advanced ones, such as India and Pakistan, have developed 
systematic techniques of programing.   Others have so-called development 
plans, but some of these are little more than lists of projects 
collected from various ministries while others are statements of goals 
without analysis of the actions required to attain them. Only rarely 
is attention given to accurate progress reports and evaluation. _WE 
CAN HELP IN THE PLANNING PROCESS_ Neither growth nor a development 
program can be imposed on a country; it must express the nation's 
own will and goal. Nevertheless, we can administer an aid program 
in such a manner as to promote the development of responsible programing.

<First>, we can encourage responsibility by establishing 
as conditions for assistance on a substantial and sustained scale the 
definition of objectives and the assessment of costs.   <Second>, 
we can make assistance for particular projects conditional on 
the consistency of such projects with the program.   <Third>, 
we can offer technical help in the formulation of programs for development 
which are adapted to the country's objectives and resources. This 
includes assistance in- **h assembling the basic economic, financial, 
technological, and educational information on which programing depends; 
**h surveying the needs and requirements over time of broad 
sectors of the economy, such as transport, agriculture, communication, 
industry, and power; **h designing the financial mechanisms of the 
economy in ways that will promote growth without inflation; and **h 
administrative practices which will make possible the more effective 
review and implementation of programs once established. _WE MUST USE 
COMMON SENSE IN APPLYING CONDITIONS_ The application of conditions 
in the allocation 
of aid funds cannot, of course, be mechanical. It must 
be recognized that countries at different stages of development have 
very different capabilities of meeting such conditions. To insist 
on a level of performance in programing and budgeting completely beyond 
the capabilities of the recipient country would result in the frustration 
of the basic objective of our development assistance to encourage 
more rapid growth.   In the more primitive areas, where the capacity 
to absorb and utilize external assistance is limited, some activities 
may be of such obvious priority that we may decide to support them 
before a well worked out program is available. Thus, we might provide 
limited assistance in such fields as education, essential transport, 
communications, and agricultural improvement despite the absence of 
acceptable country programs. In such a case, however, we would encourage 
the recipient country to get on with its programing task, supply 
it with substantial technical assistance in performing that task, and 
make it plain that an expansion or even a continuation of our assistance 
to the country's development was conditional upon programing progress 
being made.   At the other end of the spectrum, where the 
more advanced countries can be relied upon to make well thought through 
decisions as to project priorities within a consistent program, we should 
be prepared to depart substantially from detailed project approval 
as the basis for granting assistance and to move toward long-term support, 
in cooperation with other developed countries, of the essential 
foreign exchange requirements of the country's development program. 

#D. ENCOURAGING SELF-HELP#

_1. THE REASONS FOR STRESSING SELF-HELP_ 
A systematic approach to development budgeting and programing 
is one important kind of self-help. There are many others. It is vitally 
important that the new U&S& aid program should encourage all 
of them, since the main thrust for development must come from the less 
developed countries themselves. External aid can only be marginal, 
although the margin, as in the case of the Marshall plan, can be decisive. 
External aid can be effective only if it is a complement to self-help. 
U&S& aid, therefore, should increasingly be designed to 
provide incentives for countries to take the steps that only they themselves 
can take. _AID ADVICE IS NOT INTERFERENCE_ In establishing 
conditions of self-help, it is important that we not expect countries 
to remake themselves in our image. Open societies can take many forms, 
and within very broad limits recipients must be free to set their 
own goals and to devise their own institutions to achieve those goals. 
On the other hand, it is no interference with sovereignty to point 
out defects where they exist, such as that a plan calls for factories 
without power to run them, or for institutions without trained personnel 
to staff them. Once we have made clear that we are genuinely concerned 
with a country's development potential, we can be blunt in suggesting 
the technical conditions that must be met for development to occur. 
_2. THE RANGE OF SELF-HELP_ The major areas of self-help 
are the following: _(A) THE EFFECTIVE MOBILIZING OF RESOURCES._ 
This includes not only development programing, but also establishing 
tax policies designed to raise equitably resources for investment; 
fiscal and monetary policies designed to prevent serious inflation; 
and regulatory policies aimed to attract the financial and managerial 
resources of foreign investment and to prevent excessive luxury 
consumption by a few. _(B) THE REDUCTION OF DEPENDENCE ON EXTERNAL 
SOURCES._ This includes foreseeing balance-of-payments crises, 
with adequate attention to reducing dependence on imports and adopting 
realistic exchange rates to encourage infant industries and spur exports. 
It also includes providing for the training of nationals to operate 
projects after they are completed. _(C) TAPPING THE ENERGIES OF 
THE ENTIRE POPULATION._ For both economic and political reasons 
all segments of the population must be able to share in the growth 
of a country. Otherwise, development will not lead to longrun stability. 
_(D) HONESTY IN GOVERNMENT._ In many societies, what we 
regard as corruption, favoritism, and personal influence are so accepted 
as consistent with the mores of officialdom and so integral a part 
of 
routine administrative practice that any attempt to force their elimination 
will be regarded by the local leadership as not only unwarranted 
but unfriendly. Yet an economy cannot get the most out of its resources 
if dishonesty, corruption, and favoritism are widespread. Moreover, 
tolerance by us of such practices results in serious waste and diversion 
of aid resources and in the long run generates anti-American 
sentiment of a kind peculiarly damaging to our political interest. Some 
of the most dramatic successes of communism in winning local support 
can be traced to the identification- correct or not- of Communist 
regimes with personal honesty and pro-Western regimes with corruption. 
A requirement of reasonably honest administration may be politically 
uncomfortable in the short run, but it is politically essential 
in the long run. _3. U&S& POSITION ON SELF-HELP_ The United 
States can use its aid as an incentive to self-help by responding with 
aid on a sustained basis, tailored to priority needs, to those countries 
making serious efforts in self-help.   In many instances it 
can withhold or limit its aid to countries not yet willing to make such 
efforts.   There are other countries where, with skillful diplomacy, 
we may be able by our aid to give encouragement to those groups 
in government which would like to press forward with economic and social 
reform measures to promote growth. Governments are rarely monolithic.

But there will be still other countries where, despite 
the inadequacy of the level of self-help, we shall deem it wise, for political 
or military reasons, to give substantial economic assistance. 
Even in these cases we should promote self-help by making it clear that 
our supporting assistance is subject to reduction and ultimately to 
termination. 

#E. ENCOURAGING A LONG-TERM APPROACH#

_1. DEVELOPMENT 
REQUIRES A LONG-TERM APPROACH_ The most fundamental concept of 
the new approach to economic aid is the focusing of our attention, our 
resources, and our energies on the effort to promote the economic and 
social development of the less developed countries. This is not a short-run 
goal. To have any success in this effort, we must ourselves view 
it as an enterprise stretching over a considerable number of years, 
and we must encourage the recipients of our aid to view it in the same 
fashion. _MOST OF OUR AID WILL GO TO THOSE NEARING SELF-SUFFICIENCY_ 
How long it will take to show substantial success in this effort 
will vary greatly from country to country. In several significant cases, 
such as India, a decade of concentrated effort can launch these 
countries into a stage in which they can carry forward their own economic 
and social progress with little or no government-to-government assistance. 
These cases in which light is already visible at the other 
end of the tunnel are ones which over the next few years will absorb 
the bulk of our capital assistance. _GRADUALLY OTHERS WILL MOVE UP TO 
THE SAME LEVEL_ The number of countries thus favorably situated is 
small, but their peoples constitute over half of the population of the 
underdeveloped world. Meantime, over the decade of the sixties, we 
can hope that many other countries will ready themselves for the big 
push into self-sustaining growth. In still others which are barely on 
the threshold of the transition into modernity, the decade can bring 
significant progress in launching the slow process of developing their 
human resources and their basic services to the point where an expanded 
range of developmental activities is possible. _AID IS A LONG-TERM 
PROCESS_ The whole program must be conceived of as an effort, stretching 
over a considerable number of years, to alter the basic social 
and economic conditions in the less developed world. It must be recognized 
as a slow-acting tool designed to prevent political and military 
crises such as those recently confronted in Laos and Cuba. It is 
not a tool for dealing with these crises after they have erupted. _2. 
THE SPECIFIC REASONS FOR A LONG-TERM APPROACH_ _(A) THE NEED TO 
BUDGET A PERIOD OF YEARS._ Many of the individual projects for 
which development assistance is required call for expenditures over lengthy 
periods. Dams, river development schemes, transportation networks, 
educational systems require years to construct. Moreover, on complex 
projects, design work must be completed and orders for machinery 
and equipment placed months or even years before construction can commence. 
Thus, as a development program is being launched, commitments and 
obligations must be entered into in a given year which may exceed by 
twofold or threefold the expenditures to be made in that year. The 
capital expansion programs of business firms involve multi-year budgeting 
and the same is true of country development programs. _(B) THE NEED 
TO PLAN INVESTMENT PROGRAMS._ More importantly, several of 
the more advanced of the less developed countries have found through 
experience that they must plan their own complex investment programs for 
at least 5 years forward and tentatively for considerably more than 
that if they are to be sure that the various interdependent activities 
involved are all to take place in the proper sequence. Without such 
forward planning, investment funds are wasted because manufacturing facilities 
are completed before there is power to operate them or before 
there is transport to service them; or a skilled labor force is trained 
before there are plants available in which they can be employed. 
_(C) THE NEED TO ALLOCATE COUNTRY RESOURCES._ Most important 
of all, the less developed countries must be persuaded to take the necessary 
steps to allocate and commit their own resources. They must 
be induced to establish the necessary tax, fiscal, monetary, and regulatory 
policies. They must be persuaded to adopt the other necessary self-help 
measures which are described in the preceding section. The taking 
of these steps involves tough internal policy decisions. Moreover, 
once these steps are taken, they may require years to make themselves 
felt. They must, therefore, be related to long-range development 
plans. _3. PROVIDING AN INCENTIVE_ If the less developed countries 
are to be persuaded to adopt a long-term approach, the United States, 
as the principal supplier of external aid, must be prepared to give 
long-term commitments. In this, as in so many aspects of our development 
assistance activities, the incentive effects of the posture we take 
are the most important ones. The extent to which we can persuade 
the less developed countries to appraise their own resources, to set targets 
toward which they should be working, to establish in the light 
of this forward 
perspective the most urgent priorities for their immediate 
attention, and to do the other things which they must do to help themselves, 
all on a realistic long-term basis, will depend importantly 
on the incentives we place before them. If they feel that we are taking 
a long-term view of their problems and are prepared to enter into 
reasonably long-term association with them in their development activities, 
they will be much more likely to undertake the difficult tasks required. 
Perhaps the most important incentive for them will be clear 
evidence that where other countries have done this kind of home work we 
have responded with long-term commitments.

You have heard him tell these young people that during his almost 
50 years of service in the Congress he has seen the Kaisers and 
the Hitlers and the Mussolinis, the Tojos and Stalins and Khrushchevs, 
come and go and that we are passing on to them the freest Nation 
that mankind has ever known. Then I have seen the pride of country 
well in the eyes of these young people.   So, I say, Mr& Speaker, 
God bless you and keep you for many years not only for this body 
but for the United States of America and the free world. You remember 
the words of President Kennedy a week or so ago, when someone 
asked him when he was in Canada, and Dean Rusk was in Europe, and 
Vice President JOHNSON was in Asia, "Who is running the 
store"? and he said "The same fellow who has been running it, SAM 
RAYBURN". 

#GENERAL LEAVE TO EXTEND#

_MR& MCCORMACK._ 
Mr& Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that all Members who desire 
to do so may extend their remarks at this point in the RECORD; 
and also that they may have 5 legislative days in which to extend 
their remarks. _THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE._ Is there objection 
to the request of the gentleman from Massachusetts?   There was 
no objection. 

#REMARKS OF HON& JOSEPH P& ADDABBO OF NEW YORK# 

_MR& ADDABBO._ It is notably significant that so many Members 
from both sides of the aisle express their respect and admiration for 
our beloved Speaker, the Honorable SAM RAYBURN. I purposely 
refrained from adding the usual distinction of saying that he was from 
the State of Texas. I did so because I agree with so many here 
today, that he is the beloved Speaker of all the people of the United 
States. For the dignity, the influence, and the power of the legislative 
branch of our Government- it is a privilege for us to do honor 
to this great man who represents not alone his own district but all 
the people of our country. To honor him is to honor ourselves.

In this my first year as a Member of this body I have experienced 
many memorable moments. Many of these experiences are so important 
that they will be cherished forever by me. And, like many of you here 
present, I hold as the highlight of all, the occasion of my first meeting 
with the honorable Speaker of the House. At that time, he afforded 
me the courtesy of his busy workday for such length as I may need, 
to speak about my background, my hopes, my views on various national 
and local topics, and any problems that I may have been vexed with 
at the time. He was fatherly in his handling of all subjects with me 
and tremendously wise in his counsel. In conclusion, he wished me well- 
and as kindly and humbly as this humane gentleman could express 
himself, he asked to be remembered to my wife and children.   In 
my short period here I believe that at no time has he been otherwise 
than the most popular man on both sides of the aisle. He is most effective 
in the ordinary business of the House, and in the legislative 
accomplishments of this session, he easily rose to great occasion- even 
at the height of unpleasantness and exciting legislative struggle- 
and as the Nation witnessed these contests, he rose, even as admitted 
by those who differed with him, to the proportions of a hero and a 
noble partisan.   I am highly privileged today to commemorate the 
brilliant career of this parliamentary giant. He will ever be my example 
as a true statesman; one who is thoroughly human, who affects 
no dignity, and who is endowed with real ability, genuine worth, and 
sterling honesty- all dedicated to secure the best interests of the 
country he has loved and served so long. May the Divine Speaker in 
Heaven bless this country with SAM RAYBURN'S continued service 
here for years to come. 

#REMARKS OF HON& WAYNE L& HAYS OF OHIO# 

_MR& HAYS._ It is a matter of deep personal satisfaction for 
me to add my voice to the great and distinguished chorus of my colleagues 
in this paean of praise, respect, and affection for Speaker SAM 
RAYBURN. In this hour of crisis, the wisdom, the dedication, the 
stabilizing force that he represents in current American government 
is an almost indispensable source of strength. He has become in this 
half century the grand old man of American history. It seems to me 
that the prayers of the whole free world must rise like some vast petition 
to Providence that SAM RAYBURN'S vigor and his life remain 
undiminished through the coming decades.   Here briefly in this 
humble tribute I have sought for some simple and succinct summation 
that would define the immense service of this patriot to his country. 
But the task is beyond me because I hold it impossible to compress 
in a sentence or two the complicated and prodigious contributions SAM 
RAYBURN has made as an individual, as a legislator, as a statesman 
and as a leader and conciliator, to the majestic progress of this 
Nation. It happens that I am a legislator from Ohio and that I feel 
deeply about the needs, the aspirations, the interests of my district 
and my State. What SAM RAYBURN'S life proves to us all is 
the magnificent lesson in political science that one can devotedly and 
with absolute dedication represent the seemingly provincial interests 
of one's own community, one's own district, one's own State, 
and by that help himself represent even better the sweep and scope of 
the problems of this the greatest nation of all time.   For SAM 
RAYBURN never forgot Bonham, his home community, and he never 
forgot Texas. In the same way I like to think we owe our loyalty as 
legislators to our community, our district, our State. And, if we 
follow the RAYBURN pattern, as consciously or by an instinctual 
political sense I like to think I have followed it, then the very nature 
of our loyalty to our own immediate areas must necessarily be reflected 
in the devotion of our services to our country. For what SAM 
RAYBURN'S life in this House teaches us is that loyalty and character 
are not divisive and there is no such thing as being for your 
country and neglecting your district. There is no such thing as being 
diligent about national affairs but indifferent about home needs. The 
two are as one. This may not be the greatest but it certainly comes 
close to being the greatest lesson SAM RAYBURN'S career, up to 
this hour, teaches all of us who would aspire to distinction in political 
life under our processes of government.   More than that, 
SAM RAYBURN is the very living symbol of an iron-clad integrity 
so powerful in his nature and so constantly demonstrated that he can count 
some of his best friends in the opposition. Through the most rancorous 
battles of political controversy and the most bitterly fought national 
and presidential campaigns his character shines as an example 
of dignity and honesty, forthrightness and nobility. SAM RAYBURN 
has never had to look back at any of his most devastating fights and 
ever feel ashamed of his conduct as a combatant under fire or his political 
manners in the heat of conflicting ambitions. This means much to 
the American tradition. It is an answer in its way, individual and 
highly dramatic, to the charge that the democratic process is necessarily 
vicious in its campaign characteristics. And the name RAYBURN 
is one of the most dominant in the history of American politics for 
the last half century.   It is, I insist, hard to define the 
RAYBURN contribution to our political civilization because it is 
so massive and so widespread and so complicated, and because it goes 
so deep. But this we know: Here is a great life that in every area 
of American politics gives the American people occasion for pride 
and that has invested the democratic process with the most decent qualities 
of honor, decency, and self-respect. I pray to God that he may 
be spared to us for many years to come for this is an influence the United 
States and the whole world can ill afford to lose. 

#REMARKS 
OF HON& MELVIN PRICE OF ILLINOIS#

_MR& PRICE._ All but two 
of my nine terms in the House of Representatives has been served under 
the Speakership of SAM RAYBURN. Of this I am proud. I have 
a distinct admiration for this man we honor today because of the humility 
with which he carries his greatness.   And SAM RAYBURN 
is a great man- one who will go down in American history as a truly 
great leader of the Nation. He will be considered not only great 
among his contemporaries, but as great among all the Americans who 
have played a part in the country's history since the beginning.

I pay my personal tribute to SAM RAYBURN, stalwart Texan and 
great American, not only because today he establishes a record of 
having served as Speaker of the House of Representatives more than 
twice as long as Henry Clay, but because of the contributions he has 
made to the welfare of the people of the Nation during his almost half 
century of service as a Member of Congress.   Speaker RAYBURN 
has not limited his leadership as a statesman to his direction 
of the House in the Speaker's chair. He had an outstanding record 
as a legislator since the start of his career in the House in 1913, 
the 63d Congress. No one has sponsored more progressive and important 
legislation than has SAM RAYBURN. He is the recognized "father" 
of the Rural Electrification Administration and the Security 
and Exchange Commission. But to run the gauntlet of the programs 
SAM RAYBURN brought into being through his legislative efforts 
would fill the pages of today's Record.   No greater pleasure 
has come to me in my own service in this House than to be present 
today to participate in this tribute to this great Speaker, this great 
legislator, this great Texan, this great American.   My sincere 
wish is that he continues to add to this record he sets here today. 

#REMARKS OF HON& JOHN S& MONAGAN OF CONNECTICUT#

_MR& MONAGAN._ 
SAM RAYBURN is one of the greatest American public figures 
in the history of our country and I consider that I have been 
signally honored in the privilege of knowing SAM RAYBURN and sharing 
with him the rights and obligations of a Member of the House of 
Representatives in the Congress of the United States.   Others 
may speak of Speaker RAYBURN'S uniquely long and devoted 
service; of his championship of many of the progressive social measures 
which adorn our statute books today, and of his cooperation in times 
of adversity with Presidents of both of our major parties in helping 
to pilot the Ship of State through the shoals of today's stormy 
international seas.   I prefer to speak, however, of SAM RAYBURN, 
the person, rather than SAM RAYBURN, the American institution.

Although SAM RAYBURN affects a gruff exterior in 
many instances, nevertheless he is fundamentally a man of warm heart 
and gentle disposition. No one could be more devoted than he to the 
American Congress as an institution and more aware of its historical 
significance in the political history of the world, and I shall never 
forget his moving talks, delivered in simple yet eloquent words, upon 
the meaning of our jobs as Representatives in the operation of representative 
government and their importance in the context of today's 
assault upon popular government.   Above all, he is a person to 
whom a fledgling Representative can go to discuss the personal and professional 
problems which inevitably confront a new Congressman. In 
this role of father confessor, he has always been most characteristic 
and most helpful.   On September 16, SAM RAYBURN will have 
served as Speaker twice as long as any predecessor and I am proud 
to join with others in marking this date, and in expressing my esteem 
for that notable American, SAM RAYBURN. 
_ORIGIN OF STATE AUTOMOBILE PRACTICES._ The practice of state-owned 
vehicles for use of employees on business dates back over forty years. 
At least one state vehicle was in existence in 1917.   The 
state presently owns 389 passenger vehicles in comparison to approximately 
200 in 1940.   The automobile maintenance unit, or motor pool, 
came into existence in 1942 and has been responsible for centralized 
maintenance and management of state-owned transportation since that 
time.   The motor pool has made exceptional progress in automotive 
management including establishment of cost billing systems, records 
keeping, analyses of vehicle use, and effecting economies in vehicle 
operation. Cars were operated in 1959 for an average .027@ per mile.

Purchase of state vehicles is handled similarly to all state 
purchases. Unit prices to the state are considerably lower than to 
the general public because of quantity purchases and no payment of state 
sales or federal excise taxes. _VEHICLE PURCHASE, ASSIGNMENT AND 
USE POLICIES._ The legislature's role in policy determination concerning 
state-owned vehicles has been confined almost exclusively to 
appropriating funds for vehicles.   The meaningful policies governing 
the purchase, assignment, use and management of state vehicles have 
been shaped by the state's administrative officers.   Meaningful 
policies include: (a) kinds of cars the state should own, (b) 
when cars should be traded, (c) the need and assignment of vehicles, 
(d) use of cars in lieu of mileage allowances, (e) employees taking cars 
home, and (f) need for liability insurance on state automobiles.

A review of these policies indicates: _(1)_ The state purchases 
and assigns grades of cars according to need and position status 
of driver and use of vehicle. _(2)_ The purchase of compact (economy) 
cars is being made currently on a test basis. _(3)_ Cars 
are traded mostly on a three-year basis in the interest of economy. _(4)_ 
The factors governing need and assignment of cars are flexible 
according to circumstances. _(5)_ Unsuccessful efforts have been 
made to replace high mileage allowances with state automobiles. _(6)_ 
It is reasonably economical for the state to have drivers garage 
state cars at their homes. _(7)_ The state has recently undertaken 
liability insurance for drivers of state cars. _AUTOMOBILE PRACTICES 
IN OTHER STATES._ A survey of practices and/or policies in other 
states concerning assignment and use of state automobiles reveals 
several points for comparison with Rhode Island's practices.

Forty-seven states assign or provide vehicles for employees on state 
business. Two other states provide vehicles, but only with legislative 
approval.   States which provide automobiles for employees 
assign them variously to the agency, the individual, or to a central pool.

Twenty-six states operate a central motor pool for acquisition, 
allocation and/or maintenance of state-owned vehicles. 
Nineteen states report laws, policies or regulations for assigning state 
vehicles in lieu of paying mileage allowances. Of these states the 
average "change-over" point (at which a car is substituted for allowances) 
is 13,200 miles per year. _MILEAGE ALLOWANCES._ Mileage 
allowances for state employees are of two types: (a) actual mileage 
and (b) fixed monthly allowances.   Actual mileage allowances 
are itemized reimbursements allowed employees for the use of personally-owned 
vehicles on state business at the rate of .07@ per mile. Fixed 
monthly allowances are reimbursements for the same purpose except 
on a non-itemized basis. Both allowances are governed by conditions and 
restrictions set forth in detail in the state's Travel Regulations.

Rhode Island's reimburseable rate of .07@ per mile for 
use of personally-owned cars compares favorably with other states' 
rates. The average of states' rates is .076@ per mile. 
Rhode Island's rate of .07@ per mile is considerably lower than 
reimburseable rates in the federal government and in industry nationally 
which approximate a .09@ per mile average.   Actual mileage 
allowances are well-administered and not unduly expensive for the state. 
The travel regulations, requirements and procedures governing reimbursement 
are controlled properly and not overly restrictive. 
Fixed monthly allowances are a controversial subject. They have a great 
advantage in ease of audit time and payment. However, they lend themselves 
to abuse and inadequate control measures. Flat payments over 
$50 per month are more expensive to the state than the assignment of 
state-owned vehicles. _TRAVEL ALLOWANCES._ Travel allowances, including 
subsistence, have been revised by administrative officials recently 
and compare favorably with other states' allowances. With few 
exceptions travelers on state business are allowed actual travel expenses 
and $15 per day subsistence. Travel allowances are well-regulated 
and pose little problem in administration and/or audit control. 

#ORIGIN 
OF STATE AUTOMOBILE PRACTICES#

_GENERAL BACKGROUND._ It 
is difficult to pinpoint the time of origin of the state purchasing automobiles 
for use of employees in Rhode Island. Few records are available 
concerning the subject prior to 1940. Those that are available 
shed little light. The Registry of Motor Vehicles indicates that 
at least one state automobile was registered as far back as 1917. It 
should be enough to say that the practice of the state buying automobiles 
is at least forty years old.   The best reason that can be 
advanced for the state adopting the practice was the advent of expanded 
highway construction during the 1920s and '30s. At that time highway 
engineers traveled rough and dirty roads to accomplish their duties. 
Using privately-owned vehicles was a personal hardship for such employees, 
and the matter of providing state transportation was felt perfectly 
justifiable.   Once the principle was established, the increase 
in state-owned vehicles came rapidly. And reasons other than employee 
need contributed to the growth. Table 1 immediately below shows 
the rate of growth of vehicles and employees. This rate of increase 
does not signify anything in itself. It does not indicate loose management, 
ineffective controls or poor policy. But it does show that automobiles 
have increased steadily over the years and in almost the same 
proportion to the increase of state employees. In the past twenty 
years the ratio of state-owned automobiles per state employees has varied 
from 1 to 22 then to 1 to 23 now. Whether there were too few automobiles 
in 1940 or too many now is problematical. The fact is simply 
that state-owned vehicles have remained in practically the same proportion 
as employees to use them. _HISTORY AND OPERATION OF THE MOTOR 
POOL._ While the origin of state-owned automobiles may be obscured, 
subsequent developments concerning the assignment, use, and management 
of state automobiles can be related more clearly. Prior to 1942, 
automobiles were the individual responsibility of the agency to which 
assigned. This responsibility included all phases of management. It 
embraced determining when to purchase and when to trade vehicles, who 
was to drive, when and where repairs were to be made, where gasoline 
and automobile services were to be obtained and other allied matters. 
In 1942, however, the nation was at war. Gasoline and automobile tires 
were rationed commodities. The state was confronted with transportation 
problems similar to those of the individual. It met these problems 
by the creation of the state automobile maintenance unit (more popularly 
called the motor pool), a centralized operation for the maintenance 
and control of all state transportation. The motor pool then, 
as now, had headquarter facilities in Providence and other garages located 
throughout the state. It was organizationally the responsibility 
of the Department of Public Works and was financed on a rotary fund 
basis with each agency of government contributing to the pool's operation. 
In 1951 the pool's operation was transferred to the newly-created 
Department of Administration, an agency established as the 
central staff and auxiliary department of the state government. The management 
of state-owned vehicles since that time has been described in 
a recent report in the following manner: "  Under this new 
management considerable progress appears to have been made. The agencies 
of government are now billed for the actual cost of services provided 
to each passenger car rather than the prior uniform charge for all 
cars. Whereas the maintenance rotary fund had in the past sustained 
losses considerably beyond expectations, the introduction of the cost-billing 
system plus other control refinements has resulted in keeping 
the fund on a proper working basis. One indication of the merits of 
the new management is found in the fact that during the period 1951-1956, 
while total annual mileage put on the vehicles increased 35%, the 
total maintenance cost increased only 11%. "  In order 
to further refine the management of passenger vehicles, on July 1, 1958, 
the actual title to every vehicle was transferred, by Executive 
Order, to the Division of Methods, Research and Office Services. 
The objective behind this action was to place in one agency the responsibility 
for the management, assignment, and replacement of all vehicles. 
(Note: So far as State Police cars are concerned, only their 
replacement is under this division). This tied in closely with the 
current attempt to upgrade state-owned cars to the extent that vehicles 
are not retained beyond the point where maintenance costs (in light 
of depreciation) become excessive. Moreover, it allows the present management 
to reassign vehicles so that mileage will be more uniformly 
distributed throughout the fleet; for example, if one driver puts on 
22,000 miles per year and another driver 8,000 miles per year, their 
cars will be switched so that both cars will have 30,000 miles after two 
years, rather than 44,000 miles (and related higher maintenance costs) 
and 16,000 miles respectively".   The motor pool is a completely 
centralized and mechanized operation. It handles all types of 
vehicle maintenance, but concentrates more on "service station activities" 
than on extensive vehicle repairs. It contracts with outside 
repair garages for much of the latter work. Where the pool excels is 
in its compilation of maintenance and cost-data studies and analyses. 
Pool records reveal in detail the cost per mile and miles per gallon 
of each vehicle, the miles traveled in one year or three years, the periods 
when vehicle costs become excessive, and when cars should be traded 
for sound economies. From this, motor pool personnel develop other 
meaningful and related data. In 1959-60, vehicles averaged an operating 
cost of .027@ per mile. Based on this figure and considering depreciation 
costs of vehicles, pool personnel have determined that travel 
in excess of 10,000 miles annually is more economical by state car 
than by payment of allowances for use of personally-owned vehicles. They 
estimate further that with sufficient experience and when cost-data 
of compact cars is compiled, the break-even point may be reduced to 
7,500 miles of travel per year. Table 2 shows operating cost data of 
state vehicles selected at random.   One matter of concern to 
the complete effectiveness of pool operations is the lack of adequate 
central garage facilities. Present pool quarters at two locations in 
Providence are crowded, antiquated and, in general, make for inefficient 
operation in terms of dispersement of personnel and duplication of 
such operational needs as stock and repair equipment. Good facilities 
would be a decided help to pool operations and probably reduce vehicle 
costs even more. _PURCHASING PRACTICES._ The purchase of state-owned 
vehicles is handled in the same manner as all other purchases 
of the state. Requests are made by the motor pool along with any necessary 
cooperation from the agencies to which assignments of cars will 
be made. Bids are evaluated by the Division of Purchases with the 
assistance of pool staff, and awards for the purchase of the automobiles 
are made to the lowest responsible bidders. Unit prices for state 
vehicles are invariably lower than to the general public. The reasons 
are obvious: (1) the state is buying in quantity, and (2) it has no 
federal excise or state sales tax to pay. Until 1958 the state was also 
entitled to a special type of manufacturers' discount through the 
dealers.   In that ownership of all vehicles rests with the state 
motor pool, cars are paid for with funds appropriated to the agencies 
but transferred to the rotary fund mentioned earlier. This is a normal 
governmental procedure which reflects more accurately cost-accounting 
principles. The assignment and use of vehicles after purchase is 
another matter to be covered in detail later. 

#VEHICLE PURCHASE, 
ASSIGNMENT, AND USE POLICIES#

Probably the most important of all matters 
for review are the broad administrative policies governing the purchase, 
assignment, use, and management of state vehicles. The legislature's 
role in policy determination in this area for years has been 
confined almost solely to the amount of funds appropriated annually 
for the purchase and operation of vehicles. The more meaningful policies 
have been left to the judgment of the chief administrative officer 
of the state- the Director of Administration. 

#THE RHODE ISLAND PROPERTY TAX#

There was a time some years ago when 
local taxation by the cities and towns was sufficient to support their 
own operations and a part of the cost of the state government as 
well. For many years a state tax on cities and towns was paid by the 
several municipalities to the state from the proceeds of the general property 
tax. This tax was discontinued in 1936.   Since that time 
the demands of the citizens for new and expanded services have placed 
financial burdens on the state which could not have been foreseen in 
earlier years. At the same time there has been an upgrading and expansion 
of municipal services as well. Thus, there has come into being 
a situation in which the state must raise all of its own revenues and, 
in addition, must give assistance to its local governments.   This 
financial assistance from the state has become necessary because 
the local governments themselves found the property tax, or at least at 
the rates then existing, insufficient for their requirements. 
Consequently there have developed several forms of grants-in-aid and 
shared taxes, as well as the unrestricted grant to local governments 
for general purposes whose adoption accompanied the introduction of a 
sales tax at the state level.   Notwithstanding state aid, the local 
governments are continuing to seek additional revenue of their own 
by strengthening the property tax. This is being done both by the revaluation 
of real property and by seeking out forms of personal property 
hitherto neglected or ignored.   Taxation of tangible movable 
property in Rhode Island has been generally of a "hands off" nature 
due possibly to several reasons: (1) local assessors, in the main, 
are not well paid and have inadequate office staffs, (2) the numerous 
categories of this component of personal property make locating extremely 
difficult, and (3) the inexperience of the majority of assessors 
in evaluating this type of property. _PROBLEMS OF TAXING PERSONAL 
PROPERTY._ Among the many problems in the taxing of personal property, 
and of movable tangible property in particular, two are significant: 
(1) situs, (2) fair and equitable assessment of value. These 
problems are not local to Rhode Island, but are recognized as common 
to all states. _SITUS OF PROPERTY._ Although the laws of the various 
states, in general, specify the situs of property, i&e&, residence 
or domicile of the owner, or location of the property, the exceptions 
regarding boats, airplanes, mobile homes, etc&, seem to add to 
the uncertainty of the proper origination point for assessment.

Rhode Island law specifies that all real estate is taxable in the 
town in which it is situated. It also provides for the taxation of all 
personal property, belonging to inhabitants of the state, both tangible 
and intangible, and the tangible personal property of non-residents 
in this state. In defining personal property, it specifically mentions 
"all ships or vessels, at home or abroad".   Intangible 
property is taxable wherever the owner has a place of abode the greater 
portion of the year. Although a similar situs for tangible property 
is mentioned in the statute, this is cancelled out by the provision 
that definite kinds of property "and all other tangible property" 
situated or being in any town is taxable where the property is situated. 
This would seem to fix the tax situs of all movable personal property 
at its location on December 31.   Both boats and aircraft would 
fall within this category, as well as motor vehicles. The location 
of the latter now is determined for tax purposes at the time of registration, 
and it is now accepted practice to consider a motor vehicle 
as being situated where it is garaged. Obviously, it would be impossible 
to determine where every vehicle might be on the 31st day of December. 
In view of the acceptance accorded the status of motor vehicles 
for tax purposes, in the absence of any specific provision it would 
seem entirely consistent to apply the same interpretation to boats or 
aircraft.   A recent example of this problem is the flying of six 
airplanes, on December 31, 1960, from the Newport Airpark in Middletown, 
to the North Central Airport in Smithfield. This situation 
resulted in both towns claiming the tax, and probably justifiably. 
Middletown bases its claim on the general provision of the law that "all 
rateable property, both tangible and intangible, shall be taxed 
to the owner thereof in the town in which such owner shall have had his 
actual place of abode for the larger portion of the twelve (12) months 
next preceding the first day of April in each year".   The 
Smithfield tax assessor, in turn, claims the tax under the provision 
of law "**h and all other tangible personal property situated or being 
in any town, in or upon any **h place of storage **h shall be taxed 
to such person **h in the town where said property is situated". 
_ASSESSMENT OF VALUE._ This problem of fair and equitable assessment 
of value is a difficult one to solve in that the determination of 
fair valuation is dependent on local assessors, who in general are 
non-professional 
and part-time personnel taking an individualistic approach 
to the problem. This accounts for the wide variance in assessment 
practices of movable tangible property in the various municipalities in 
Rhode Island.   This condition will undoubtedly continue until 
such time as a state uniform system of evaluation is established, 
or through mutual agreement of the local assessing officials for a method 
of standard assessment practice to be adopted.   The Rhode 
Island Public Expenditure Council in its publication once commented: 
"  The most realistic way of facing up to this problem would 
be to have the State take over full responsibility for assessing 
all taxable property. An adequately staffed and equipped State assessing 
office could apply uniform methods and standards which would go far 
toward producing equitable assessments on all properties throughout 
the State. A single statewide assessing unit would eliminate the differences 
and complications that are inherent in a system of 39 different 
and independent assessing units".   The Institute of Public 
Administration, in its report to the State Fiscal Study Commission 
in 1959, recommended "consolidating and centralizing all aspects 
of property tax administration in a single state agency professionally 
organized and equipped for the job". The resulting setup, it was 
declared, "would be similar to that which is in successful operation 
in a number of metropolitan counties as large or larger than Rhode 
Island". _PRACTICES IN RHODE ISLAND._ To determine the practice 
and attitude of municipal governments concerning tangible movable property, 
a questionnaire was sent to all local government assessors or 
boards of assessors in Rhode Island.   The replies from each 
individual town are not given in detail because the questions asked the 
personal opinion of the several assessors and are not necessarily the 
established policy of the town in each case. There are legitimate reasons 
for differences of opinion among the assessors as a whole and among 
the public officials in each town. These opinions of the assessors 
are of significance in indicating what their thinking seems to be at 
the present time.   In reply to a question of whether they now 
tax boats, airplanes and other movable property excluding automobiles, 
nineteen said that they did and twenty that they did not. The wording 
of the question was quite general and may have been subject to different 
interpretations. One assessor checked boats only, another trailers 
and tractors, one mentioned house trailers, and two others referred 
to trailers without specifying the type. In two cases, airplanes only 
were indicated.   It is difficult to tabulate exactly what was 
meant in each individual situation, but the conclusion may be drawn 
that 21 towns do not assess movable personal property, and of the remainder 
only certain types are valued for tax purposes. Boats were indicated 
specifically by only one of the five towns known to tax boats. 
It would seem, then, that movable property and equipment is not taxed 
as a whole but that certain types are taxed in towns where this is bound 
to be expedient for that particular kind of personal property.

So few answered the question relating to their efforts to assess 
movable property that the results are inconclusive. Only four towns indicated 
that they made any more than a normal effort to list property 
of this kind.   Of greater interest is a question as to whether 
movable property was assessed according to its location or ownership. 
Fifteen stated that it was according to location, four by residence 
of the owner, and nineteen did not answer.   Twenty-seven assessors 
stated that they were in favor of improved means for assessing movable 
personal property, and only five were opposed. Seven others expressed 
no opinion. On this point there was fairly general agreement that 
assessors would like to do more than they are doing now. It is not 
clear, however, whether they are thinking of all movable property or 
only of boats, trailers, aircraft or certain other types of personal 
property whose assessment would be advantageous to their particular towns.

Another question that was asked of the assessors was whether 
they favored the assessment of movable property at its location or 
at the residence of the owner. Eighteen voted for assessment by the 
town in which it is located and eleven preferred assessment by the town 
in which the owner resides. Ten others made no reply. Of those who 
have an opinion, it seems that assessment by location is preferred. There 
was one vote for location being the place where the property is 
situated for the greater portion of the twelve months preceding the assessment 
date.   To summarize, it may be said that there is no one 
prevailing practice in Rhode Island with respect to the taxation 
of movable property, that assessors would like to see an improvement, 
and of those who have an opinion, that assessment by the town of location 
is preferred on the basis of their present knowledge. The need for 
greater knowledge is evident from their replies. 

#BOATS AS PERSONAL 
PROPERTY#

_TAXING OF BOATS._ Interest has been shown for a number 
of years by local assessors in the possibility of taxing boats. 
Assessors in Rhode Island are charged not only with placing a valuation 
upon real and personal property, but they also have the responsibility 
to raise by a tax "a sum not less than nor more than" a specified 
amount as ordered by a city council or financial town meeting.

It has been obvious to the assessors, particularly those in shore 
communities, that boats comprise the largest category of tangible personal 
property which they have been unable to reach. Through their 
professional organization, the Rhode Island Tax Officials Association 
the question of taxing boats long has been debated and discussed. 
No satisfactory solution has been found, but this is due more to the 
difficulties inherent in the problem than to a lack of interest or diligence 
on the part of the assessors.   It has been estimated that 
the value of boats in Rhode Island waters is something in excess 
of fifty million dollars, excluding commercial boats. It is obvious that 
this is a potential and lucrative source of revenue for the assessors 
of those towns where a substantial amount of such property would be 
subject to taxation.   It is known that at least five towns (Barrington, 
Bristol, Narragansett, Newport and Westerly) place some 
value on some boats for tax purposes. However, few are taxed, and 
the owners and location of most boats are unknown to the assessors on 
the date of assessment of town valuations.   No one really knows 
how many boats there actually are or what their aggregate value may 
be. Slightly more than 5,000 boats were registered with the Coast Guard 
prior to the recent passage of the state boating law. Only a few 
more than 10,000 boats had been registered with the Division of Harbors 
and Rivers at the end of the 1960 boating season, but many had 
been taken out of the water early when the threat of a hurricane brought 
the season to an early close.   The assessors' association, 
meeting at Narragansett in September 1960, devoted its session to a 
discussion of the boat problem.

Local industry's investment in Rhode Island was the big story 
in 1960's industrial development effort. Fifty-two companies started 
or committed themselves to new plant construction, totaling 1,418,000 
square feet and representing an investment of $11,900,000; a 
new post-World War /2, record. With minor exceptions, this expansion 
was instituted either by firms based in Rhode Island or out-of-state 
manufacturers already operating here.   What made these new 
location figures particularly impressive was the fact that although 1960 
was a year of mild business recession throughout the nation, Rhode 
Island scored marked progress in new industry, new plants, and new jobs.

Of the major expansions in 1960, three were financed under 
the R& I& Industrial Building Authority's 100% guaranteed 
mortgage plan: Collyer Wire, Leesona Corporation, and American 
Tube + Controls. Leading firms that arranged their own financing 
included Speidel Corporation, Cornell-Dubilier, Photek, Inc& 
Division of Textron, Narragansett Gray Iron Foundry, W& R& 
Cobb Company, and Mays Manufacturing Company.   Expansion 
and relocation of industry in Rhode Island is the direct responsibility 
of the Development Council's Industrial Division, and the figures 
quoted above indicate a successful year's operation. Industrial 
Division personnel worked with 54 out-of-state and 97 Rhode Island 
concerns during 1960, many of whom are still interested in a Rhode 
Island location. They are conscious of this state's new feeling 
of optimism and assurance and are definitely impressed by the number of 
new plants and construction projects in Rhode Island. _AIDS TO 
SMALL BUSINESS#

Although much of the Industrial Division's promotional 
effort is devoted to securing new locations and expansions by 
major industries, small business is also afforded considerable attention. 
Our Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce carries on a vigorous 
program, directly aimed at solving and expediting the problems of 
manufacturers in the lower employment categories.   A primary function 
is the operation of a Government Bid Center, which receives 
bids daily from the Federal Government's principal purchasing agencies. 
Assistance is rendered to interested Rhode Island businessmen 
concerning interpretation of bid invitations, where to obtain specifications, 
and follow-ups concerning qualification. During the past year, 
10,517 government bid invitations were received and 4,427 procurement 
leads were mailed to Rhode Island manufacturers.   In addition, 
the Office's domestic trade program provided consultant services 
to those seeking information on establishment of new businesses; 
how and where to apply for financial assistance; details on marketing; 
information concerning patents, copyrights and trade marks, availability 
of technical reports, and other subjects of interest to small 
business.   The Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce is 
also active in the field of international trade, assisting Rhode Island 
firms in developing and enlarging markets abroad. This office cooperates 
with the U& S& Department of Commerce in giving statewide 
coverage 
to services which include: statistics on markets abroad; locating 
foreign agents, buyers, distributors, etc&; information on 
foreign and domestic import duties and regulations, licensing, investments, 
and establishing of branch representatives or plants abroad, and 
documentary requirements concerning export shipments and arrangements 
for payment.   During the year 1960, this office supplied 954 visitors 
with information related to foreign and domestic commerce, and 
made 73 field visits. _ADVERTISING PROGRAM_ Our media advertising 
continued, during 1960, its previous effective program that stressed 
such specifics as 100% financing, plant availabilities, and location 
advantages. We also continued to run a series of ads featuring endorsement 
of Rhode Island by industrialists who had recently established 
new plants here.   To reach a still greater audience of location-minded 
manufacturers, our industrial advertising budget for the fiscal 
year was increased from $32,000 to $40,000, and the Industrial 
Building Authority's financial participation was upped from $17,000 
to $20,000.   Newspaper advertising was mainly concentrated in 
the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal (Eastern and Midwestern 
editions) which averaged two prominent ads per month, and to 
a lesser degree the New York Herald Tribune and, for the west coast, 
the Los Angeles Times and the Wall Street Journal (Pacific 
Coast edition). In addition to the regular schedule, advertisements 
were run for maximum impact in special editions of the New York Times, 
Boston Herald, American Banker, Electronic News and, for local 
promotion, the Providence Sunday Journal. Magazine advertising 
included Management Methods, the New Englander, U& S& Investor, 
and Plant Location.   The direct mail campaign consisted 
of 3 intra state mailings of 1680 letters each and 6 out-of-state directed 
to electronics, plastics, pharmaceutical, and business machine manufacturers, 
and to publishers. These totaled 6,768 pieces of correspondence.

The 1960 advertising campaign brought a total of 239 
inquiries; 164 from media and 75 from direct mail. Two hundred and 
nineteen were received from 35 of our 50 United States and 11 came from 
foreign countries. New York led in the number of inquiries, followed 
by California, New Jersey, Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania. 
Among foreign countries responding were Germany, Canada, Brazil and 
India. _INDUSTRIAL PROMOTION_ An important operation in soliciting 
industrial locations involves what we term "Missionary calls" 
by one of this Division's industrial promotion specialists. These 
consist of visits, without previous announcement, on top officials of 
manufacturing concerns located in highly industrialized areas. More 
than 25 carefully selected cities were visited, including New York, 
Brooklyn, Long Island City, Newark, Elizabeth, Stamford, Waterbury, 
New Haven, Bridgeport, Boston, Cambridge, Worcester, and 
Waltham.   Out of a total of 603 calls, 452 contacts were established 
with top executive personnel. We received 76 out-of-state visitors 
interested in investigating Rhode Island's industrial advantages, 
and Industrial Division personnel made 55 out-of-state follow-up 
visits. _INDUSTRIAL CONFERENCES_ During 1960, two important conferences 
were organized by the Development Council's Industrial Division. 
In June, the Office of Foreign and Domestic Commerce- 
in conjunction with local trade associations, chambers of commerce, 
and bank officials- sponsored a World Trade Conference at the Sheraton-Biltmore 
Hotel. Its purpose was to find ways of offsetting the 
United States' declining balance of trade for 1958 and 1959. Approximately 
100 representatives of business attended this conclave and 
the R& I& Export Conference Committee later voted to continue 
the activity as an annual event.   On October 8th of last year, 
the Industrial Division sponsored the Governor's Conference 
on Industrial Development at the former Henry Barnard School. A 
comprehensive program devoted to the various phases of the development 
effort attracted 143 interested individuals.   Morning sessions 
included addresses by Ward Miller, Jr& of the U& S& Dept& 
of Commerce. Richard Preston, executive director of the New Hampshire 
State Planning and Development Commission, and Edwin C& 
Kepler of General Electric Company. Workshop sessions in the afternoon 
featured development executives from Pennsylvania, Connecticut 
and Maine, and rounded out a rewarding program.   In connection 
with this conference, a 64-page supplement was published in the October 
2nd edition of the Providence Sunday Journal. Devoted to the 
improvement in business climate and increase in industrial construction 
in Rhode Island, it has proved a valuable mailing piece for this 
Division. More than 2000 copies have been sent out to prospective clients. 
_MAILINGS AND PUBLICATIONS_ Other special mailings by the 
Industrial Division included copies of speeches delivered at the Governor's 
Conference, letters and brochures to conferees at Med-Chemical 
Symposium at University of Rhode Island and letters and reprints 
of industrial advertisements to such organizations as Society 
of Industrial Realtors. 1184 copies of the R& I& Directory of 
Manufacturers were distributed: 643 in-state and 541 out-of-state.

The Industrial Division published, in 1960, a new, attractive 
industrial brochure, "Rhode Island- Right For Industry", 
and prepared 
copy for a new edition of the Directory of Manufacturers (to be 
printed shortly), and for a new space catalogue.   Additional promotional 
activities included organizing the dedication program for Operation 
Turnkey, the new automated post office, and a conference with 
representatives of Brown University, Providence College, and University 
of Rhode Island, and eight electronics concerns regarding 
the inauguration of a training program for electronics personnel. 

#PLANNING 
DIVISION#

Stated in its simplest terms, the main job of the 
Planning Division is to plan for the future of the State of Rhode 
Island. The activities of the Planning Division are defined in considerable 
detail in the enabling act of the Development Council, which 
assigns to the agency both broad responsibilities and specific duties 
in the field of planning.   Two years ago, the Institute of 
Public Administration issued an extremely comprehensive report entitled 
"State-Local Relations in Metropolitan Rhode Island. As 
the result of an exhaustive review of the recommendations contained in 
this report, plus an analysis of our own enabling act, the Planning 
Division developed a number of basic planning objectives which caused 
a reorientation of its work program. These objectives are stated here 
because of their importance in understanding the current activities 
of the Planning Division. _(1)_ First priority will be given to 
the preparation of a meaningful state guide plan to serve as a background 
for all other planning activities in the state. _(2)_ Recognizing 
the truth of the statement by the Institute of Public Administration 
that "Metropolian Planning (in Rhode Island) means, or 
should mean, state planning", the state guide plan will take into account 
the metropolitan nature of many of Rhode Island's problems. 
_(3)_ It will continue to be an objective of this division to encourage 
the acceptance of planning as a proper and continuing responsibility 
of local government. To this end, the community assistance program 
of the planning division will continue to be operated as a staff function 
to make available, on a shared cost basis, technical planning 
assistance to those communities in the state unable to maintain their 
own planning staff. _(4)_ The planning division will take the initiative 
in encouraging planning cooperation at all levels of government; 
among the operating departments of the state; between the cities 
and towns of the state; and on a regional basis between the six New 
England states. _(5)_ On the basis that all citizens of the state 
are entitled to benefit equally in the development of its resources, 
plans for the provision of essential services (such as water) will 
be based on need regardless of arbitrary political boundaries, within 
the framework of the state plan. _(6)_ The state development budget 
will reflect the capital needs of all the state agencies and the priority 
of the projects in the budget will be based on the state plan. 
_(7)_ In preparing the state guide plan, particular attention will 
be given means of strengthening the economy of the state through the 
development of industry and recreation.   Functionally the planning 
division carries out four activities: long-range state planning, 
current state planning, local planning assistance; and the preparation 
of the state development budget. _LONG RANGE STATE PLANNING_ 
The planning division has embarked on the most complete and comprehensive 
state planning program in the nation. The long range aspects of 
this program are divided into four distinct phases: basic mapping, 
inventory, analysis and plan and policy formation. The work program, 
as it was originally proposed, was to take five years to complete. Recent 
events- particularly the necessity of providing planning information 
for the statewide origin/destination study of the Department 
of Public Works- indicate that this schedule will have to be accelerated. 
The basic mapping phase of the program has been completed and 
the inventory phase is scheduled for completion July 1, 1961. _BASIC 
MAPPING_ Since accurate base maps are necessary for any planning 
program, the first step taken by the planning division to implement the 
long range state plan has been to prepare two series of base maps- 
one at a scale of 1 inch to a mile, and the second a series of 26 sheets 
at a scale of 1 inch to 2000 feet, covering the entire state. With 
these maps completed, the inventory phase of the plan has been started. 
_INVENTORY_ With the aid of matching federal funds available 
under Section 701 of the Housing Act of 1954 as amended, the planning 
division began a one year program July 1, 1960 to complete the inventory 
phase of the state planning program. this phase consists of four 
items: urban land use, rural land use, physical features and public 
utility service areas. Since the validity of all subsequent planning 
depends on the accuracy of the basic inventory information, great care 
is being taken that the inventory is as complete as possible.

The urban land use study carried out by the planning division staff 
has consisted of identifying and mapping all urban land uses which are 
of significance to statewide planning. The rural land use study is 
being carried out under contract by the University of Rhode Island 
and identifies all agricultural land uses in the state by type of use. 
The mapping of important physical features such as slopes and types 
of soil and the collection of all available information pertaining to 
public utility service areas are being conducted as staff projects and, 
like the other two inventory projects, are scheduled for completion 
July 1, 1961. _ANALYSIS_ The collection of information is meaningless 
unless it is understood and used for a definite purpose. 
_SPECIAL DISTRICTS IN RHODE ISLAND._ It is not within the scope of 
this report elaborate in any great detail upon special districts in 
Rhode Island. However, a word should be mentioned in regard to them 
as independent units of government.   There are forty-seven special 
district governments in Rhode Island (excluding two regional school 
districts, four housing authorities, and the Kent County Water 
Authority). These forty-seven special purpose governments have the 
authority to levy taxes, to borrow money, own property, sue and be sued, 
and in general to exercise normal corporate powers. Unlike cities 
and towns, however, they do not have to submit any financial statements 
to the state Bureau of Audits. It is not an exaggeration to say 
that the state government has little or no fiscal control over these units 
of government. In addition to the collection of service charges, 
the special districts levy annual property taxes of approximately $450,000. 

#FISCAL YEARS IN OTHER STATES#

_COMPARATIVE DATA._ A 
review of practices in other states regarding fiscal uniformity is pertinent 
to this report. Included in the findings are: _1._ Forty-six 
states, including Rhode Island, end their fiscal year on June 
30. The other four states end on varying dates: Alabama (Sept& 
30), New York (March 31), Pennsylvania (May 31), and Texas (August 
31). _2._ In sixteen states, the fiscal year ending of the 
cities (June 30) is the same as that of the state: Alaska, Arizona, 
California, Delaware, Massachusetts, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, 
North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Oregon, Vermont, 
West Virginia, Wyoming, and Hawaii). _3._ In eleven states, 
the fiscal year of the cities ends on December 31, while the state fiscal 
year ends on June 30 (Arkansas, Colorado, Indiana, Kansas, New 
Hampshire, New Jersey, Ohio, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, 
and Wisconsin). _4._ In eight states whose fiscal years close 
on June 30, a majority of their cities close their fiscal year on December 
31: (Georgia, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Minnesota, 
Virginia, and South Carolina). _5._ One state, Alabama, closes 
its fiscal year on September 30, and all cities in the state, with 
one exception, also close fiscal years on September 30. _6._ 
Mississippi closes its fiscal year on June 30, while all of its cities 
close their fiscal years on September 30. _7._ Pennsylvania closes 
its fiscal year on May 31. All of its cities close their fiscal 
years on December 31.   The remaining twelve states have varying 
fiscal years for the state, city and local governments. However, 
only Illinois, Oregon, Louisiana and Rhode Island have a situation 
in which the sundry units of government vary widely in relation to fiscal 
uniformity. 

#FISCAL UNIFORMITY: ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES# 

_ADVANTAGES._ An excellent summary of advantages concerning 
the uniform fiscal year and coordinated fiscal calendars was contained 
in a paper presented by a public finance authority recently. He listed 
among the values of fiscal uniformity: _1._ The uniform fiscal 
year requires compliance with common sense administration of local 
finances: adoption of the budget, or financial plan, in advance of spending. 
_2._ The uniform fiscal year ensures conformance with another 
common sense rule, that of having cash in the bank before checks 
are drawn. It enables towns to make more economical purchases and to 
take advantage of cash discounts. _3._ The uniform fiscal year promotes 
more careful budgeting and strengthens control over expenditures. 
By fixing the tax rate in advance of spending, upper limits are set 
on expenditures. _4._ The uniform fiscal year brings the town's 
fiscal year into line with that of the schools, which expend the largest 
share of local disbursements. This greatly simplifies the town's 
bookkeeping and financial reporting. _5._ The uniform fiscal 
year eliminates interest charges on money borrowed in the form of tax 
anticipation notes. Furthermore, tax collections not immediately needed 
for current expenditures may be invested in short-term treasury notes, 
augmenting the town's miscellaneous revenues and reducing the tax 
levy. _6._ The uniform fiscal year facilitates inter-town comparison 
of revenues and expenditures. When towns have the same fiscal 
year it is relatively easy to make meaningful comparisons; and as the 
cost of local government increases, the demand for such comparison also 
increases. Towns having different fiscal years are difficult to compare.

Of all advantages, probably none is more important than 
the elimination of tax anticipation notes. Borrowing in anticipation 
of current taxes and other revenues is a routine procedure of the majority 
of municipalities at all times. It may be by bank loans, sale 
of notes or warrants, or by the somewhat casual method of issuance and 
registration of warrants. In any event it is a form of borrowing which 
could be and should be rendered unnecessary. Its elimination would 
result in the saving of interest costs, heavy when short-term money rates 
are high, and in freedom from dependence on credit which is not always 
available when needed most. This type of borrowing can be reduced 
to a minimum if quarterly installment payment of taxes is instituted 
and the first payment placed near the opening of the fiscal year. Any 
approach 
toward such a system looks toward saving and security. 
It should be noted that there are other and equally important reasons 
for establishing meaningful intergovernmental reporting bases on a uniform 
fiscal year. Both the federal and state governments commence their 
fiscal years on July 1. Both units of government contribute increasingly 
large sums of money to the several local governments in this 
state as indicated below: @   It has been said that when local 
government revenues were mostly produced locally from the property 
tax, the lack of a uniform fiscal year was no great handicap; but with 
the growth of state and federal fiscal aid, the emphasis on equalization, 
and the state-local sharing of responsibility for certain important 
functions, this is no longer true. The haphazard fiscal year calendar 
is an obstacle to the planning of clear and efficient state-local 
revenue and expenditure relationships. _DISADVANTAGES._ Although 
there are many sound reasons for adopting uniform and coordinated fiscal 
years in Rhode Island, there are also certain difficulties encountered. 
These involve more the mechanics employed in adjusting to fiscal 
uniformity than they do actual actual disadvantages to the principle. 
One problem is a matter of shifting dates; the other, is how to 
finance the transition.   Little can be done about the changing 
of dates. This is an inherent part of adjusting fiscal calendars. It 
usually means a confused and disgruntled tax-paying public for a period 
of time. But cooperation and understanding between local officials 
and the citizenry help lessen this problem.   The other problem 
is the matter of financing the transition period in the several cities 
and towns. This will be covered more fully later. It should be kept 
in mind that the ease or difficulty with which a town or city can 
convert to the proposed plan is directly dependent upon the financial 
condition of that town or city. Fortunately, there are no cities or towns 
in the state, with one or two possible exceptions that are in too 
difficult a position to finance the proposed change. Sacrifice will 
have to be made in some cases, but it is to the municipality's advantage 
to finance the change-over for a short period of time rather than 
pay interest on tax anticipation notes indefinitely. 

#ADJUSTING THE 
FISCAL CALENDARS#

The advantages of a uniform fiscal year and well 
synchronized fiscal and tax collection calendars are sufficiently great 
for Rhode Island municipalities to exert effort to secure them. The 
type of program desired can be determined by the nature and extent 
of the adjustments needed. Two features are immediately evident. First, 
the present situation is too varied to be systematized by any single 
formula. Second, the shift to a uniform July 1-June 30 fiscal year 
will, of itself, improve the tax collection calendars of the great 
majority of cities and towns. There are at least two problems to consider: 
one is a matter of adjusting the fiscal calendar; the other 
is how to finance the adjustments when necessary. The latter matter 
is considered in detail in a later section.   Twelve cities and 
towns in Rhode Island presently indicate some plans to establish a 
uniform and/or coordinated fiscal-tax year calendar. Plans vary from 
the "talking stage" to establishing special committees to accomplish 
this end. What is important here is that many of the cities and towns 
recognize the need for improved fiscal practices and are taking the 
initiative to obtain them.   An analysis of the fiscal-tax collection 
year calendars throughout the state indicates that transition 
may not be as painful as is commonly thought. However, it must be stressed 
that much depends upon the financial condition of the individual 
cities and towns involved.   The adjustments needed to establish 
a uniform and coordinated fiscal-tax collection year calendar throughout 
Rhode Island, based on a July 1-June 30 year, are shown below. 
_NO ADJUSTMENT NEEDED._ Six cities and towns are presently on a 
July 1-June 30 fiscal year and have coordinated their tax collection 
year with it. No change is required for these towns. These municipalities 
include: Barrington, Lincoln, Middletown, Newport, North 
Kingstown, and South Kingstown. _ADJUSTMENT OF FISCAL YEAR._ 
One town and one city, Coventry and East Providence, require an adjustment 
of their fiscal year only. This change will automatically adjust 
their tax collection year calendar so as to make all tax installments 
due and payable in the fiscal year collectible within that year. 
_ADJUSTMENT OF TAX COLLECTION YEAR._ Six cities and towns are now 
on a July 1-June 30 fiscal year and will need only to adjust their 
tax collection year calendar to establish uniformity. These cities and 
towns include Bristol, Glocester, Pawtucket, Cumberland, Central 
Falls, and Woonsocket. _SIMULTANEOUS ADJUSTMENTS._ Two cities 
to be considered, Providence and Cranston, are an enigma. Both have 
excellent integration of their fiscal-tax collection year calendars. 
However, neither of these two cities is on the desired July 1-June 
30 fiscal year.   The adjustment to a uniform and coordinated fiscal 
period could be accomplished relatively easy for them. In that 
both cities end their fiscal years on September 30, they could levy taxes 
for an interim period of nine months, commencing with September 
30 and ending with June 30. These three installment dates would be: 
October 26, January 26, and April 25 (Providence) and November 
15, February 16 and May 15 (Cranston). Both would start their new 
fiscal year on July 1. Their tax collection calendar could then be: 
July 25, October 26, January 26, and April 25, (Providence); 
and August 15, November 15, February 17, and May 15, (Cranston). 
Under this plan both Cranston and Providence would be on the uniform 
fiscal year but would still be using the same installment periods. 
_VARYING ADJUSTMENTS._ The remaining twenty-three towns have fiscal 
years which end prior to June 30. All of these towns will require 
adjustments of both their fiscal and tax collection years. Assuming 
an adjustment to the July 1-June 30 fiscal year, the required adjustment 
of the tax collection years and the towns involved are shown in Table 
3. 

#METHODS OF FINANCING ADJUSTMENTS#

Aside from the matter 
of adjusting the fiscal and tax calendars, there is the problem of financing 
the adjustment when this is necessary. It should be emphasized 
strongly that adjustments in fiscal dates or adoption of interim budgets 
<do not necessarily> mean financing over and above normal governmental 
requirements. In many communities there is simply no financial 
problem; it is only a matter of adjusting accounting methods, careful 
fiscal planning and management, or some like combination of techniques. 
In other municipalities the difficulties in overcoming the financial 
burden have been sufficiently great to dishearten proponents of 
fiscal year changes. Fortunately, such cases in Rhode Island are more 
the exception than the rule.   As shown earlier in Table 1, 
the several cities and towns use widely varied fiscal and tax collection 
calendars. In addition, no two Rhode Island communities are identical 
in relation to their over-all financial condition. These factors 
practically insure that no single financing formula is feasible; each 
situation must be studied and a plan developed that takes into consideration 
such factors as the effect of the existing and prospective 
tax calendars, the financial condition of the treasuries, and the length 
of the transition interval. Suitable plans range from those that are 
very easy to develop to those that are difficult to formulate and require 
borrowing ranging from short-term serial notes to long-term bonds.

The financial problem, where it exists, usually stems from 
the adoption of a budget for the transitional or adjustment period. For 
those communities which have financial difficulties in effecting adjustments, 
there are a number of alternatives any one of which alone, 
or in combination with others, would minimize if not even eliminate the 
problem. 

#RHODE ISLAND HERITAGE WEEK PROCLAMATION BY JOHN A& NOTTE,JR& 
GOVERNOR#

The theme of Rhode Island Heritage Week for 1961 will 
be "Independence and Union". It commemorates the 185th anniversary 
of Rhode Island's Independence when, upon May 4, 1776, the 
General Assembly, by its action, established the first free republic 
in the New World.   As this year marks the centennial of the 
beginning of the Civil War, this fact is being commemorated with several 
exhibits throughout the State, but most of all paying tribute to 
the first Rhode Island Volunteers who rushed to the defense of the 
City of Washington, putting at the disposal of President Lincoln 
the only fully equipped and best trained regiment at this time.

On April 30, ceremonies commemorating the departure of these volunteers 
will take place at 1:00 P&M& at the Dexter Training Grounds 
in Providence. The Independence Day celebration will be properly 
observed with a big military and civic parade from West Warwick 
to the Greene Homestead in Anthony; AND NOW, THEREFORE, DO I, 
JOHN A& NOTTE, JR&, GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE 
PLANTATIONS, PROCLAIM THE WEEK OF APRIL 29TH TO MAY 7TH, 1961, 
AS RHODE ISLAND HERITAGE WEEK, advising our citizens that throughout 
this week many historic houses and beautiful gardens will be open 
to visitors as well as industrial plants, craft shops, museums and libraries 
and I 
earnestly urge all to take advantage of these opportunities 
to see as many of these places as they can during this outstanding 
week.   IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand 
and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 21st day of April, 
in the year of Our Lord, one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one 
and on Independence, the one hundred and eighty-fifth.   Governor 

#ARMED FORCES DAY PROCLAMATION BY JOHN A& NOTTE, JR& GOVERNOR# 

The year 1961 marks the fourteenth anniversary of the unification of 
our Armed Forces under the National Security Act of 1947. 
National defense, like the continuing search for peace with freedom 
and justice for all, is "everybody's business". Our investment 
in this effort, the greatest in our Nation's history, reflects our 
determination to ensure the peace and the future of freedom.   It 
is a sound investment. As the President has said, "only when our 
arms are sufficient beyond doubt can we be certain that they will never 
be employed".   Armed Forces Day is the annual report on 
this investment, a public presentation designed to give our own people, 
and the people of other lands who stand with us for peace with freedom 
and justice, the best possible opportunity to see and understand what 
we have and why we have it.   It is the purpose of Armed Forces 
Day to give Americans an opportunity to honor men of the Armed 
Forces, those who have made the supreme sacrifice, those who remain 
to preserve our security. Freedom depends upon them; NOW, THEREFORE, 
DO I, JOHN A& NOTTE, JR&, GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND 
AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS, PROCLAIM SATURDAY, MAY 20th, 1961, 
AS ARMED FORCES DAY, reminding our citizens that we should rededicate 
ourselves to our Nation, respecting the uniforms as the guardians 
of our precious liberty.   IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have 
hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed 
this 17th day of May, in the year of Our Lord, one thousand nine hundred 
and sixty-one, and of Independence, the one hundred and eighty-sixth.

Governor 

#NATIONAL MARITIME DAY PROCLAMATION BY JOHN A& NOTTE, JR& GOVERNOR# 

The President of the United States, pursuant to a Joint Resolution 
of Congress, has issued a proclamation each year since 1933 
declaring may 22nd to be National Maritime Day.   This date in 
1819 marked the sailing of the S& S& "Savannah" from Savannah, 
Georgia, for Liverpool. This voyage was the first successful 
crossing of the Atlantic under steam propulsion. The day is now appropriately 
set aside to honor the American men and women who have contributed 
to the success of our merchant marine fleet in peace and war.

The Merchant Marine is the "Fourth Arm of Defense", for 
a strong and effective American Merchant Marine is essential to 
the economy and security of our Nation.   Through trade and travel 
across the seas the American Merchant Marine is carrying out its 
historic mission of linking the United States of America with friendly 
nations across the seas; AND NOW, THEREFORE, DO I, JOHN A& 
NOTTE, JR&, GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS, 
PROCLAIM MONDAY, MAY 22nd, 1961, AS NATIONAL MARITIME 
DAY, reminding our citizens that American Merchant ships and American 
seamen are ready at all times to serve our Nation in the cause 
of freedom and justice.   IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have 
hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed 
this 20th day of April, in the year of Our Lord, one thousand nine 
hundred and sixty-one, and of Independence, the one hundred and eighty-fifth.

Governor 

#MISS RHODE ISLAND PAGEANT WEEK PROCLAMATION BY JOHN A& NOTTE, JR& 
GOVERNOR#

The Miss Rhode Island Pageant is sponsored by the 
Rhode Island Junior Chamber of Commerce as a part of the nation-wide 
search for the typical American girl- a Miss America from Rhode 
Island. This is an official preliminary contest of the Miss America 
Pageant held each September in Atlantic City. The ideal girl- 
possessed of talent, poise, intelligence, personality and beauty 
of face and figure- is chosen each year to represent Rhode Island.

Many hours are given free by the Jaycees to make this and all 
local pageants outstanding events. Proceeds realized from these pageants 
are used by the Jaycees to help support their various youth, health, 
welfare and community betterment activities throughout the state.

Miss Sally May Saabye, (Miss Rhode Island 1960) says that 
within a short time- on June 17th- her reign will come to an 
end. She hopes that all will support the contestants from our own community 
by attending our Pageants and the State Pageant June 17; 
AND NOW, THEREFORE, DO I, JOHN A& NOTTE, JR&, GOVERNOR OF THE STATE 
OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS, PROCLAIM THE WEEK OF 
JUNE 11TH TO 17TH, 1961, AS MISS RHODE ISLAND PAGEANT WEEK, with deep 
appreciation to the Jaycees, local and statewide, for the presentation 
of their beautiful Pageants and the encouragement of all Rhode 
Island girls to participate.   IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have 
hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed 
this 11th day of June, in the year of Our Lord, one thousand nine 
hundred and sixty-one, and of Independence, the one hundred and eighty-sixth.

Governor 

#UNITED NATIONS DAY PROCLAMATION BY JOHN A& NOTTE, JR&, GOVERNOR# 

For the purpose of maintaining international peace and promoting 
the advancement of all people, the United States of America joined 
in founding the United Nations.   The United Nations Charter 
sets forth standards which, if adhered to, will promote peace and justice 
throughout the world. It is extremely important for each American 
to realize that the theme "The United Nations is your business" 
applies to him personally.   The world desperately needs the 
United Nations. United Nations Day is the birthday of the United 
Nations, mankind's noblest attempt to establish lasting peace with 
justice; AND NOW, THEREFORE, DO I, JOHN A& NOTTE, JR&, GOVERNOR 
OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS, PROCLAIM 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 24TH, 1961, AS UNITED NATIONS DAY, calling upon 
all 
our citizens to engage in appropriate observances, demonstrating faith 
in the United Nations and thereby contributing to a better understanding 
of the aims of the United Nations throughout the land.

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused 
the seal of the State to be affixed this 5th day of July, in the year 
of Our Lord, one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one, and of Independence, 
the one hundred and eighty-sixth.   governor 

#THE STATE BALLET OF RHODE ISLAND WEEK PROCLAMATION BY JOHN A& NOTTE, 
JR&, GOVERNOR#

The ballet originated in Italy about 1450. At 
that time it was a series of sophisticated social dances whose steps 
were often combined with other steps devised by the choreographer. Ballet 
flowered in Italy during the next hundred years, and about 1550 
was carried to France when the Italian princess, Catherine de Medicis, 
married the King of France. The most famous ballet of that time 
was called Ballet Comique de la Reine (1581). Dances alternated 
with sung or spoken verses. Ballets were used in opera from its beginning. 
They were placed either in the middle of the acts or in the intermissions.

The State Ballet of Rhode Island, the first 
incorporated group, was formed for the purpose of extending knowledge 
of the art of ballet in the Community, to promote interest in ballet 
performances, to contribute to the cultural life of the State, and to 
provide opportunity for gifted dance students who, for one reason or 
another, are unable to pursue a career and to develop others for the professional 
state; AND NOW, THEREFORE, DO I, JOHN A& NOTTE, JR&, 
GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS, 
PROCLAIM THE WEEK OF MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1961, AS THE STATE BALLET OF 
RHODE ISLAND WEEK, requesting all Rhode Islanders to give special 
attention to this unusual event which should contribute to the cultural 
life of the State.   IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto 
set my hand and caused the seal of the State to be affixed this 
23d day of October, in the year of Our Lord, one thousand nine hundred 
and sixty-one, and of Independence, the one hundred and eighty-sixth.

Governor 

#PROCLAMATION THANKSGIVING DAY BY JOHN A& NOTTE, JR& GOVERNOR# 

As another Thanksgiving draws near, let us take time out from the often 
hectic pace of our lives to try and recapture the feelings that filled 
the hearts of the Pilgrims on the first Thanksgiving.   The 
Pilgrims gathered to thank the Lord for His benevolence during 
their first year in the new land. They had been through trying times, 
but their faith in the Almighty had given them the courage and the strength 
to meet and overcome the many problems and difficulties that were 
the price they had to pay for freedom. And as the Pilgrims bowed 
their heads in humble gratitude, they shared another feeling- the anticipation 
of what the future held for them and their posterity. They 
could not guess that from their concepts of liberty and freedom would 
some day be born a new nation that for years would be the symbol of 
hope to the oppressed countries of the world. They simply turned to God 
filled with gratitude and faith.   We who are living today may 
learn a valuable lesson from those who celebrated the first Thanksgiving 
Day. The Lord has shown time and time again His love for us. 
We have only to compare the liberty and high standard of living we 
enjoy in this great country with the oppression and frugality of other 
nations to realize with humble gratitude that God's Providence has 
been with us since the very beginning of our country. And yet, accompanying 
our gratitude is the realization that we are living in a crucial 
time. With world peace constantly being threatened, most of us regard 
the future skeptically, and even with fear. It is at this time that 
we should imitate the Pilgrims by accompanying our prayers of thanks 
with the conviction that we shall continue to be in dire need for 
the Lord's protection in the future, if we are to have peace; NOW, 
THEREFORE, DO I, JOHN A& NOTTE, JR&, GOVERNOR OF THE STATE OF 
RHODE ISLAND AND PROVIDENCE PLANTATIONS, PROCLAIM THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 
23RD, 1961, AS THANKSGIVING DAY,   And so, let us remember on 
this day not only to thank the Almighty Who gave hope and courage 
to the Pilgrims, but also to place our trust in Him that He will continue 
to protect us in the future as He has in the past.   IN 
TESTIMONY WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal 
of the State to be affixed this 21st day of November, in the year 
of Our Lord, one thousand nine hundred and sixty-one and of Independence, 
the one hundred and eighty-sixth. John A& Notte Jr&

Governor

<Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled>, That the 
Act of July 3, 1952 (66 Stat& 328) as amended (42 U&S&C& 
1952-1958), is further amended to read as follows: _SECTION 1._ 
In view of the increasing shortage of usable surface and ground water 
in many parts of the Nation and the importance of finding new sources 
of supply to meet its present and future water needs, it is the policy 
of the Congress to provide for the development of practicable low-cost 
means for the large-scale production of water of a quality suitable 
for municipal, industrial, agricultural, and other beneficial consumptive 
uses from saline water, and for studies and research related 
thereto. As used in this Act, the term 'saline water' includes sea 
water, brackish water, and other mineralized or chemically charged 
water, and the term 'United States' extends to and includes the 
District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories 
and possessions of the United States. _SEC& 2._ In 
order to accomplish the purposes of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall- _(A)_ conduct, encourage, and promote fundamental 
scientific research and basic studies to develop the best and most economical 
processes and methods for converting saline water into water 
suitable for beneficial consumptive purposes; _(B)_ conduct engineering 
research and technical development work to determine, by laboratory 
and pilot plant testing, the results of the research and studies 
aforesaid in order to develop processes and plant designs to the point 
where they can be demonstrated on a large and practical scale; _(C)_ 
recommend to the Congress from time to time authorization for 
construction and operation, or for participation in the construction 
and operation, of a demonstration plant for any process which he determines, 
on the basis of subsections (~a) and (~b) above, has 
great promise of accomplishing the purposes of this Act, such recommendation 
to be accompanied by a report on the size, location, and cost 
of the proposed plant and the engineering and economic details with 
respect thereto; _(D)_ study methods for the recovery and marketing 
of commercially valuable byproducts resulting from the conversion 
of saline water; and _(E)_ undertake economic studies and surveys 
to determine present and prospective costs of producing water for beneficial 
consumptive purposes in various parts of the United States 
by the leading saline water processes as compared with other standard 
methods. _SEC& 3._ In carrying out his functions under section 
2 of this Act, the Secretary may- _(A)_ acquire the services of 
chemists, physicists, engineers, and other personnel by contract or 
otherwise; _(B)_ enter into contracts with educational institutions, 
scientific organizations, and industrial and engineering firms; 
_(C)_ make research and training grants; _(D)_ utilize the 
facilities of Federal scientific laboratories; _(E)_ establish 
and operate necessary facilities and test sites at which to carry on the 
continuous research, testing, development, and programing necessary 
to effectuate the purposes of this Act; _(F)_ acquire secret 
processes, 
technical data, inventions, patent applications, patents, licenses, 
land and interests in land (including water rights), plants and 
facilities, and other property or rights by purchase, license, lease, 
or donation; _(G)_ assemble and maintain pertinent and current 
scientific literature, both domestic and foreign, and issue bibliographical 
data with respect thereto; _(H)_ cause on-site inspections 
to be made of promising projects, domestic and foreign, and, in the 
case 
of projects located in the United States, cooperate and participate 
in their development in instances in which the purposes of this Act 
will be served thereby; _(I)_ foster and participate in regional, 
national, and international conferences relating to saline water conversion; 
_(J)_ coordinate, correlate, and publish information 
with a view to advancing the development of low-cost saline water conversion 
projects; and _(K)_ cooperate with other Federal departments 
and agencies, with State and local departments, agencies, and instrumentalities, 
and with interested persons, firms, institutions, and 
organizations. _SEC& 4. (A)_ Research and development activities 
undertaken by the Secretary shall be coordinated or conducted jointly 
with the Department of Defense to the end that developments under 
this Act which are primarily of a civil nature will contribute to the 
defense of the Nation and that developments which are primarily of 
a military nature will, to the greatest practicable extent compatible 
with military and security requirements, be available to advance the 
purposes of this Act and to strengthen the civil economy of the Nation. 
The fullest cooperation by and with Atomic Energy Commission, 
the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, the Department 
of State, and other concerned agencies shall also be carried out in the 
interest of achieving the objectives of this Act. _(B)_ All research 
within the United States contracted for, sponsored, cosponsored, 
or authorized under authority of this Act, shall be provided for 
in such manner that all information, uses, products, processes, patents, 
and other developments resulting from such research developed by Government 
expenditure will (with such exceptions and limitations, if 
any, as the Secretary may find to be necessary in the interest of national 
defense) be available to the general public. This subsection shall 
not be so construed as to deprive the owner of any background patent 
relating thereto of such rights as he may have thereunder. _SEC& 
5. (A)_ The Secretary may dispose of water and byproducts resulting 
from his operations under this Act. All moneys received from dispositions 
under this section shall be paid into the Treasury as miscellaneous 
receipts) _(B)_ Nothing in the Act shall be construed to 
alter existing law with respect to the ownership and control of water. 
_SEC& 6._ The Secretary shall make reports to the President 
and the Congress at the beginning of each regular session of the action 
taken or instituted by him under the provisions of this Act and 
of prospective action during the ensuing year. _SEC& 7._ The Secretary 
of the Interior may issue rules and regulations to effectuate 
the purposes of this Act. _SEC& 8._ There are authorized to 
be appropriated such sums, to remain available until expended, as may 
be necessary, but not more than $75,000,000 in all, (a) to carry out 
the provisions of this Act during the fiscal years 1962 to 1967, inclusive; 
(b) to finance, for not more than two years beyond the end of 
said period, such grants, contracts, cooperative agreements, and studies 
as may theretofore have been undertaken pursuant to this Act; and 
(c) to finance, for not more than three years beyond the end of said 
period, such activities as are required to correlate, coordinate, and 
round out the results of studies and research undertaken pursuant to 
this Act: <Provided>, That funds available in any one year for 
research and development may, subject to the approval of the Secretary 
of State to assure that such activities are consistent with the foreign 
policy objectives of the United States, be expended in cooperation 
with public or private agencies in foreign countries in the development 
of processes useful to the program in the United States: <And 
provided further>, That every such contract or agreement made with 
any public or private agency in a foreign country shall contain provisions 
effective to insure that the results or information developed 
in connection therewith shall be available without cost to the United 
States for the use of the United States throughout the world and 
for the use of the general public within the United States. 
_SEC& 2._ Section 4 of the joint resolution of September 2, 1958 
(72 Stat& 1707; 42 U& S& C& 1958 (~d)), is hereby 
amended 
to read:   The authority of the Secretary of the Interior under 
this joint resolution to construct, operate, and maintain demonstration 
plants shall terminate upon the expiration of twelve years after 
the date on which this joint resolution is approved. Upon the expiration 
of a period deemed adequate for demonstration purposes for each 
plant, but not to exceed such twelve-year period, the Secretary shall 
proceed as promptly as practicable to dispose of any plants so constructed 
by sale to the highest bidder, or as may otherwise be directed by 
Act of Congress. Upon such sale, there shall be returned to any State 
or public agency which has contributed financial assistance under 
section 3 of this joint resolution a proper share of the net proceeds 
of the sale.   Approved September 22, 1961.

<Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled>, That the 
Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to make 
or cause to be made a study covering- _(1)_ the causes of injuries 
and health hazards in metal and nonmetallic mines (excluding coal 
and lignite mines); _(2)_ the relative effectiveness of voluntary 
versus mandatory reporting of accident statistics; _(3)_ the 
relative contribution to safety of inspection programs embodying- _(A)_ 
right-of-entry only and _(B)_ right-of-entry plus enforcement 
authority; _(4)_ the effectiveness of health and safety education 
and training; _(5)_ the magnitude of effort and costs of each 
of these possible phases of an effective safety program for metal 
and nonmetallic mines (excluding coal and lignite mines); and _(6)_ 
the scope and adequacy of State mine-safety laws applicable to such 
mines and the enforcement of such laws. _SEC& 2. (A)_ The Secretary 
of the Interior or any duly authorized representative shall 
be entitled to admission to, and to require reports from the operator 
of, any metal or nonmetallic mine which is in a State (excluding any 
coal or lignite mine), the products of which regularly enter commerce 
or the operations of which substantially affect commerce, for the purpose 
of gathering data and information necessary for the study authorized 
in the first section of this Act. _(B)_ As used in this section- 
_(1)_ the term "State" includes the Commonwealth of Puerto 
Rico and any possession of the United States; and _(2)_ 
the term "commerce" means commerce between any State and any place 
outside thereof, or between points within the same State but through 
any place outside thereof. _SEC& 3._ The Secretary of the Interior 
shall submit a report of his findings, together with recommendations 
for an effective safety program for metal and nonmetallic mines 
(excluding coal and lignite mines) based upon such findings, to the 
Congress not more than two years after the date of enactment of this 
Act.   Approved September 26, 1961.

<Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled>, That the 
Secretary of the Interior is hereby authorized and directed to establish 
and maintain a program of stabilization payments to small domestic 
producers of lead and zinc ores and concentrates in order to stabilize 
the mining of lead and zinc by small domestic producers on public, 
Indian, and other lands as provided in this Act. _SEC& 2. (A)_ 
Subject to the limitations of this Act, the Secretary shall make 
stabilization payments to small domestic producers upon presentation of 
evidence satisfactory to him of their status as such producers and of 
the sale by them of newly mined ores, or concentrates produced therefrom, 
as provided in this Act. Payments shall be made only with respect 
to the metal content as determined by assay. _(B)_ Such payments 
shall be made to small domestic producers of lead as long as the market 
price for common lead at New York, New York, as determined by 
the Secretary, is below 14-1/2 cents per pound, and such payments shall 
be 75 per centum of the difference between 14-1/2 cents per pound 
and the average market price for the month in which the sale occurred 
as determined by the Secretary. _(C)_ Such payments shall be made 
to small domestic producers of zinc as long as the market price for 
prime western zinc at East Saint Louis, Illinois, as determined by 
the Secretary, is below 14-1/2 cents per pound, and such payments shall 
be 55 per centum of the difference between 14-1/2 cents per pound 
and the average market price for the month in which the sale occurred 
as determined by the Secretary. _(D)_ The maximum amount of payments 
which may be made pursuant to this Act on account of sales of newly 
mined ores or concentrates produced therefrom made during the calendar 
year 1962 shall not exceed $4,500,000; the maximum amount of such 
payments which may be made on account of such sales made during the 
calendar year 1963 shall not exceed $4,500,000; the maximum amount 
of such payments which may be made on account of such sales made during 
the calendar year 1964 shall not exceed $4,000,000; and the maximum 
amount of such payments which may be made on account of such sales 
made during the calendar year 1965 shall not exceed $3,500,000. 
In the same period, 431 presentations by members of the staff were made 
to local, national, and international medical groups. _3. EDUCATION:_ 
_A._ The education function of the Institute is carried 
on by the staff in the departments of pathology and its consultants. 
During fiscal year 1959, six courses were conducted: Forensic Pathology, 
Application of Histochemistry to Pathology, Pathology of Diseases 
of Laboratory Animals, Opthalmic Pathology, Pathology of 
the Oral Regions, and a Cardiovasculatory Pathology Seminar. During 
fiscal year 1960, seven courses were conducted: Application of 
Histochemistry to Pathology, Forensic Pathology, Pathology of Diseases 
of Laboratory Animals, Pathology of the Oral Regions, Opthalmic 
Pathology, Forensic Sciences Symposium, and Orthopedic Pathology. 
From 1 July 1960 through 31 January 1961, six courses were 
conducted: Workshop in Resident Training in Pathology, Pathology 
of Diseases of Laboratory Animals, Application of Histochemistry 
of Pathology, Orthopedic Pathology, Forensic Sciences Symposium, 
and Forensic Pathology. _B._ During fiscal years 1959 and 
1960, there were 139 military and civilian students who came to the Institute 
for varying periods of special instruction. _4. RESEARCH:_ 
The Institute is engaged in an extensive program of medico-military 
scientific research in both morphological and experimental pathology. 
Among the specific areas of concentration in which the staff is engaged, 
are such projects as biological and biochemical studies of the 
effects of microwaves; study of motor end plates in man and animals; 
investigation of respiratory diseases of laboratory animals; metabolic 
responses to reduced oxygen tension; neuropathology of nuclear 
and cosmic radiation; carcinoma of prostate; evaluation of histochemical 
techniques; and hip dysplasia in dogs. There has been an 
increase in cooperative research with other Federal agencies and civilian 
institutions.   During the period from 1 July 1960 through 
31 January 1961, additional research affiliations were effected with 
the U& S& Army Medical Research and Development Command to 
conduct research in procedures for quantitative electron microscopy, and 
for the study of biophysical and biological studies of the structure 
and function of ocular tissue. Also, the Defense Atomic Support 
Agency sponsored a long-range study at this Institute on the response 
of massive suspension cultures of mammalian cells to acute radiation. 
Other scientific agencies, both Federal and civilian, supported studies 
in quantitative electron microscopical approach to microchemistry 
and microcytochemistry; the investigation of the relationship of 
diphosphopyridine 
nucleotide synthesizine enzyme to tumor growth; morphological 
study and classification of leukemia and lymphoma cases in 
animals; and the study of structural changes in M& leprae and other 
mycobacteria. _MEDICAL ILLUSTRATION SERVICE_ _1._ The Medical 
Illustration Service is responsible for the collection, publication, 
exhibition, and file of medical illustration material of medico-military 
importance to the Armed Forces. In addition to maintaining 
a permanent central file of illustrations of diseases, wounds, and injuries 
of military importance, it provides facilities for clinical photography, 
photomicrography, and medical arts, and operates a printing 
plant, by permission of Congressional Committee, for publication of 
an "Atlas of Tumor Pathology". It also maintains shops for the 
design and fabrication of exhibits, training aids and instruments and 
libraries for the loan of films and teaching lantern slide sets. _2._ 
During this period, a total of 762 exhibits were presented at 442 
medical and scientific meetings. Of these exhibits, 154 were newly 
constructed. Twenty-nine exhibits received awards. _3._ Visual and 
operable training aids developed by the Medical Illustration Service, 
were used in support of Army Medical Service mass casualty exercises. 
Members of the Medical Illustration Service lectured and 
conducted demonstrations on the use of training aids to military personnel 
and various civilian medical organizations. Demonstrations of new 
and projected training aids were conducted at the Medical Service 
Instructor's Conference, Brooke Army Medical Center, Texas. _4._ 
In support of the emphasis placed by the Department of Defense 
on instruction in emergency medical care, the Medical Illustration 
Service developed casualty simulation kits and rescue breathing manikins 
which are being field tested; and overhead projector transparency 
sets on the subjects of Military Sanitation: First Aid for 
Soldiers; Bandaging and Splinting; the Emergency Medical Treatment 
Unit, Phase /1,; and Emergency War Surgery in support 
of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (~NATO) Handbook. 
Fifty lantern slide teaching sets on the subject of "Emergency War 
Surgery (~NATO)" were assembled and distributed to the Medical 
Military Services of foreign Governments associated with ~NATO 
and South-East Asia Treaty Organization. The British and 
Canadian Liaison Officers, as well as Office of Civil and Defense 
Mobilization, the American Red Cross, and similar interested organizations 
were informed from time to time as training aids were developed. 
_5._ Nine veterinary lantern slide teaching sets were developed 
and distributed, and lantern slide teaching sets on 21 pathology 
subjects were added to the loan library of the Medical Illustration 
Service. Illustrations were prepared for 11 Department of the Army 
manuals and one Graphic Training Aid. Sixteen lantern slide sets 
were loaned to the Government of India and eight sets were forwarded 
to the U&S& Embassy, Managua, Nicaragua for the Educational 
Exchange Program. The Senate Subcommittee on Reorganization and 
International Organizations was provided samples of visual aids on 
first aid and personal health produced by the Medical Illustration 
Service. _6._ Six fascicles (10,000 copies each) of the "Atlas 
of Tumor Pathology" were completed during the period of this report. 
_THE AMERICAN REGISTRY OF PATHOLOGY_ This consists of 25 individual 
registries, two of which were added during fiscal years 1959-1960 
(the Registry of Forensic Pathology and the Testicular Tumor 
Registry). These registries are sponsored by 18 national medical, 
dental, and veterinary societies and have as their mission the assembling 
of selected cases of interest to military medicine and of establishing 
through the mechanism of follow-up of living patients the natural 
history of various diseases of military-medical importance. The American 
Registry of Pathology operates as a cooperative enterprise in 
medical research and education between the Armed Forces Institute of 
Pathology and the civilian medical profession on a national and international 
basis, under such conditions as may be agreed upon between 
the National Research Council and The Surgeons General of the Army, 
Navy, and Air Force. The staff utilized the collected material 
in these registries for numerous lectures to national and international 
meetings, exhibits, and published studies. During the period of this 
report, 37,470 new cases were entered into the various registries. 
These were selected carefully and included not only detailed clinical 
information but adequate pathology of value for research and educational 
purposes.   In this same period, six new fascicles of the Atlas 
of Tumor Pathology were published and distributed to medical centers 
world-wide. There were 54,320 copies of fascicles sold and 642 
copies distributed free during this period. Forty-five new Clinico-pathologic 
Conferences were prepared, bringing the total to 61 available 
for loan distribution. Nine new teaching Clinico-pathologic Conference 
sets were prepared, which makes a total of 70 types of teaching 
sets for loan. During this period, 7,827 teaching sets were distributed 
on loan. The Clinico-pathologic Conferences have been acknowledged 
as of great value and in consequent great demand by the small isolated 
military hospitals. The demand for teaching sets continues unabated 
since they provide the means for the military physicians to review 
the pathology of selected disease processes or organ systems for review 
of basic sciences and correlation of clinical physiological behavior 
with structural changes. _THE MEDICAL MUSEUM_ In fiscal year 1959, 
the Medical Museum was moved to Chase Hall, a temporary building 
on Independence Avenue at Ninth Street, Southwest, and continued 
to display to the public the achievements of the Armed Forces Medical 
Services. During the period of this report, 63 panel exhibits 
depicting the latest developments in medical research were displayed. 
Of the 375 exhibits (of all types) shown, 161 were new or refurbished. 
Of the 885 specimens newly mounted or refurbished, 254 were prepared 
for other agencies. Eighty-five specimens were loaned for study 
purposes. An exhibit, "Macropathology- An Ancient Art, A new 
Science", was presented at the annual meeting of the American Medical 
Association.   A three-dimensional exhibit depicting "A 
Century of Naval Medicine" was formally presented to The Director 
by George S& Squibb, great-grandson of the founder of E& 
R& Squibb and Sons, for permanent display in the Museum.

Space was provided for short-time guest medical exhibits, and the 
Museum collected new accessions of microscopes, medical, surgical, and 
diagnostic instruments, uniform, and similar items of historical medico-military 
significance.   During the period, the laboratory rendered 
centralized macropathological service to qualified requesters. 
Specimens were mounted for military installations, governmental agencies, 
and medical schools.   Three hundred five copies of the <Manual 
of Macropathological Techniques> were distributed. Thirty-five 
military and civilian students received laboratory training.

During fiscal years 1959 and 1960, there were 795,586 visitors to the 
Museum.   During the period from 1 July 1960 through 31 January 
1961, the Medical Museum was required to move to Temporary Building 
"~S" on the Mall from Chase Hall. Throughout the period 
and during the movement operation, the Museum continued its functional 
support of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology. 

#ARMED FORCES 
MEDICAL PUBLICATION AGENCY#

The Armed Forces Medical Publication 
Agency, established in 1949, has published, since January 1950, 
the United States Armed Forces Medical Journal as a triservice 
publication 
to furnish material of professional interest to Medical Department 
officers of the three military services. Its supplement, the Medical 
Technicians Bulletin, supplied similar material to enlisted 
medical personnel. These publications replaced the U& S& Naval 
Medical Bulletin, published continuously from 1907 through 1959, as 
well as the Navy's Hospital Corps Quarterly and the Bulletin of 
the U& S& Army Medical Department, published from 1922 to 1949. 
In addition, their establishment made it unnecessary to begin publication 
of a contemplated Air Force medical bulletin. Estimated annual 
savings resulting from publication of the Journal and Bulletin 
on a triservice basis, as compared with the cost of producing separate 
periodicals for each service, were between $65,000 and $70,000. Additionally, 
on the many ships at sea and in the smaller naval stations, 
the availability of the Journal removed the necessity of subscribing 
to several additional journals of civilian origin over and above the 
quantity now authorized, in order to provide any reasonably comparable 
coverage.   From 1 July 1958 to 30 June 1960, 24 numbers of 
the 
Journal and nine of the Bulletin were published. Each Journal contained 
articles of professional and clinical interest, and departments 
devoted to military medical news, reviews of new books, and other features 
of interest to officers of the medical services. The Council 
on National Defense of the American Medical Association contributed 
a brief article to each issue entitled, "This is Your A&M&A&".

Beginning with the October 1959 issue of the Journal, 
the method of production of copy for photo-offset reproduction was 
changed from varityping to hot typesetting. This resulted in an improved 
appearance, but was followed by an increase in printing cost that 
necessitated the institution of major economies to keep within the total 
of allocated funds. The use of 100 instead of 140 substance paper 
plus the adoption of side stapling beginning with the May 1960 issue 
reduced costs sufficiently to allow completion of the fiscal year with 
nearly $4,000 in unexpended funds.   Two special issues were 
published, one for November 1959 on Space Medicine, the other the 
Tenth Anniversary issue for January 1960. The February 1960 issue 
marked the reinstitution of the section entitled, "The Medical Officer 
Writes". Replacing the discontinued Medical Technicians 
Bulletin, 
publication of which was suspended with the November-December 
1959 issue, a section called "Technical Notes" was inaugurated 
on a bimonthly basis beginning with the April 1960 issue. Occasional 
features were published on historical medicine, special reports, bibliography, 
and "Collector's Items". In May 1960, the Armed 
Forces Institute of Pathology began a series of articles on the "Medical 
Museum", and in June, the Institute started contributing 
a regular monthly "Case for Diagnosis". The Institute also planned 
to furnish a regular series of articles, beginning in the fall 
of 1960, on its more significant Scientific Exhibits.   The Armed 
Forces Epidemiological Board agreed to submit each month a report 
for one of its 12 commissions, so that each commission will report 
once a year on some phase of its work calculated to be of particular interest 
and value to medical officers of the Armed Forces. The first 
report in this continuing series appeared in the September 1960 issue 
of the Journal. 
Another recent achievement was the successful development of a method 
for the complete combustion in a bomb calorimeter of a metal in fluorine 
when the product is relatively non-volatile. This work gave a heat 
of formation of aluminum fluoride which closely substantiates a value 
which had been determined by a less direct method, and raises this 
property to 15 percent above that accepted a few years ago. Similar measurements 
are being initiated to resolve a large discrepancy in the 
heat of formation of another important combustion product, beryllium fluoride.

The development and testing of new apparatus to measure 
other properties is nearing completion. In one of these, an exploding-wire 
device to study systems thermodynamically up to 6,000 **f and 
100 atmospheres pressure, a major goal was achieved. The accuracy of 
measuring the total electrical energy entering an exploding wire during 
a few microseconds was verified when two independent types of comparison 
with the heat energy produced had an uncertainty of less than 2 
percent. This agreement is considered very good for such short time intervals. 
The method of calibration employs a fixed resistance element 
as a calorimeter. The element is inserted 
in the discharge circuit in place of the exploding wire, 
and the calorimetric heating of the element is measured with high accuracy. 
This is used as a reference for comparing the ohmic heating and 
the electrical energy obtained from the measured current through the 
element and the measured voltage across the element.   A high-speed 
shutter has been developed in order to permit photographic observation 
of any portion of the electrical wire explosion. The shutter consists 
of two parts: a fast-opening part and a fast-closing part. Using 
Edgerton's method, the fast-closing action is obtained from the 
blackening of a window by exploding a series of parallel lead wires. 
The fast-opening of the shutter consists of a piece of aluminum foil 
(approximately **f) placed directly in front of the camera lens so that 
no light may pass into the camera. The opening action is obtained 
when a capacitor, charged to high voltage, is suddenly discharged through 
the foil. During the discharge the magnetic forces set up by the 
passage of current cause the edges of the foil to roll inward toward 
its center line, thus allowing light to pass into the camera. Experiments 
have shown that the shutter is 75 percent open in about 60-80 microseconds. 
The shutter aperture may be made larger or smaller by changing 
the foil area and adjusting the electrical energy input to the foil. 
_LABORATORY MEASUREMENTS OF INTERSTELLAR RADIO SPECTRA._ Besides 
the well-known hydrogen line at 21 ~cm wavelength, the spectra of 
extraterrestrial radio sources may contain sharp lines characteristic 
of other atoms, ions, and small molecules. The detection and study 
of such line spectra would add considerably to present information on 
interstellar gas clouds and, perhaps, planetary atmospheres. Among the 
most likely producers of detectable radio line spectra are the light 
diatomic hydrides ~OH and ~CH; somewhat less likely sources 
are the heavier hydrides ~SH, ~SiH, and ~ScH. Very small 
concentrations of these hydrides should be detectable; in interstellar 
gas, concentrations as low as **f molecules/**f may be sufficient, 
as compared to the **f hydrogen atoms **f required for detection of 
the 21-~cm line.   High sensitivity in radio telescopes is achieved 
by reducing the bandwidth of the receiver; therefore, only with 
precise foreknowledge of the line frequencies is an astronomical 
search for the radio spectra of these molecules feasible. To secure precise 
measurements of these frequencies, a research program in free radical 
microwave spectroscopy has been started. Since conventional methods 
are insensitive at the low frequencies of these molecular transitions, 
the paramagnetic resonance method is being used instead. This 
involves the application of a strong magnetic field to the radical vapor, 
which shifts the low-frequency spectra to a conveniently high microwave 
range, where they may be measured with optimum sensitivity.

The first diatomic hydride investigated by the paramagnetic resonance 
method was the ~OH radical. Results of this experiment include 
the frequencies of the two strong spectral lines by which ~OH may 
be identified in interstellar gas; the frequencies are 1665.32 and 
1667.36 **f, with an uncertainty of 0.10 **f. Success in observing these 
spectral lines has so far, apparently, been confined to the laboratory; 
extraterrestrial observations have yet to be reported. Preparations 
are being made for similar experiments on ~CH and ~SH 
radicals. _LOW TEMPERATURE THERMOMETRY._ The Bureau is pursuing 
an active program to provide a temperature scale and thermometer calibration 
services in the range 1.5 to 20 **f. The efforts and accomplishments 
fall into three main categories: absolute thermometry based 
upon the velocity of sound in helium gas, secondary thermometry involving 
principally studies of the behavior of germanium resistors, and helium-4 
vapor-pressure measurements (see p& 144). _ACOUSTICAL INTERFEROMETER._ 
An acoustical interferometer has been constructed and 
used, with helium gas as the thermometric fluid, to measure temperatures 
near 4.2 and 2.1 **f. Such an interferometer provides a means of absolute 
temperature measurement, and may be used as an alternative to 
the gas thermometer. When values of temperature derived with this instrument 
were compared with the accepted values associated with liquid 
helium-4 vapor pressures, differences of about 10 and 7 millidegrees respectively 
were found. This result is preliminary, and work is continuing. 
_RESISTANCE THERMOMETERS._ Carbon resistors and impurity-doped 
germanium resistors have been investigated for use as precision secondary 
thermometers in the liquid helium temperature region. Several 
germanium resistors have been thermally cycled from 300 to 4.2 **f and 
their resistances have been found to be reproducible within 1/3 millidegree 
when temperatures were derived from a vapor pressure thermometer 
whose tubing is jacketed through most of the liquid helium. Preliminary 
calibrations of the resistors have been made from 4.21 to 2.16 
**f at every 0.1 **f. The estimated standard deviations of the data for 
two of the resistors were @ 1 millidegree; and for the third resistor, 
@ 3.3 millidegrees. _VAPOR PRESSURE METHOD._ The reproducibilities 
of helium vapor-pressure thermometers have been investigated 
in conjunction with a "constant temperature" liquid helium bath 
from 4.2 to 1.8 **f. Surface temperature gradients have been found to 
exist in liquid helium baths contained in 15-and 25-liter metallic storage 
dewars. The gradient was about one half of a millidegree at 4.2 
**f but increased to several millidegrees for bath temperatures slightly 
greater than the ~|l point. A hydrostatic head correction has 
been neither necessary nor applicable in the determination of vapor pressures 
or temperatures for the bulk liquid helium. However, the surface 
temperature gradient can produce erroneous vapor-pressure measurements 
for the bulk liquid helium unless precautions are taken to isolate 
the tube (which passes through the surface to the vapor pressure bulb) 
from the liquid helium surface. It has also been observed, in helium 
/2,, that large discrepancies can exist between surface vapor pressures 
and those pressures measured by a vapor pressure thermometer. This 
has been attributed to helium film flow in the vapor pressure thermometer. 
In this case also the design of the thermometer can be modified 
to reduce the helium film flow. _PRESSURE TRANSDUCER FOR ~PVT 
MEASUREMENTS._ Precise pressure-volume-temperature measurements on 
corrosive gases are dependent on a sensitive yet rugged pressure transducer. 
A prototype which fulfills the requirements was developed and 
thoroughly tested. The transducer is a null-type instrument and employs 
a stretched diaphragm, 0.001 in& thick and 1 in& in diameter. 
A small pressure unbalance displaces the diaphragm and changes the capacitance 
between the diaphragm and an electrically insulated plate spaced 
0.001 in& apart (for **f). Spherical concave backing surfaces 
support the diaphragm when excessive pressures are applied and prevent 
the stresses within the diaphragm from exceeding the elastic limit. 
Over a temperature range from 25 to 200 **f and at pressures up to 
250 ~atm, an overload of 300 ~psi, applied for a period of one day, 
results in an uncertainty in the pressure of, at most, one millimeter 
of mercury. _TRANSPORT PROPERTIES OF AIR._ A 6-year study of the 
transport properties of air at elevated temperatures has been completed. 
This project was carried out under sponsorship of the Ballistic 
Missile Division of the Air Research and Development Command, U&S& 
Air Force, and had as its goal the investigation of the transport 
by diffusion of the heat energy of chemical binding. A significant 
effect discovered during the study is the existence of Prandtl 
numbers reaching values of more than unity in the nitrogen dissociation 
region. Another effect discovered is the large coefficient of thermal 
diffusion tending to separate nitrogen from the oxygen when temperature 
differences straddling the nitrogen dissociation region are present. 
The results of the study, based on collision integrals computed from 
the latest critically evaluated data on intermolecular forces in air, 
will be reported in the form of a table of viscosity, thermal conductivity, 
thermal diffusion, and diffusion coefficients at temperatures 
of 1,000 to 10,000 **f and of logarithm of pressure in atmospheres from 
**f to **f times normal density. _INTERNATIONAL COOPERATIVE ACTIVITIES._ 
In March, 1961, representatives of the national laboratories 
of Australia, Canada, The Netherlands, United Kingdom, U&S&S&R&, 
United States, and West Germany, met at the ~NBS 
to devise means for reaching international agreement on a temperature 
scale between 10 and 90 **f. As a first step toward this goal, 
arrangements were worked out for comparing the scales now in use through 
circulation of a group of standard platinum resistance thermometers 
for calibration by each national laboratory. Such a group of thermometers 
was obtained and calibrated at the ~NBS. These thermometers 
have now been sent to the United Kingdom for calibration at the National 
Physical Laboratory. _TEMPERATURE SYMPOSIUM._ During the 
last week of march 1961, Columbus, Ohio was the site of the Fourth 
Symposium on Temperature, Its Measurement and Control in Science 
and Industry. The Symposium, which was jointly sponsored by the 
American Institute of Physics, the Instrument Society of America, 
and the National Bureau of Standards, attracted nearly one thousand 
registrants, including many from abroad. The Bureau contributed 
to the planning and success of the Symposium through the efforts of Mr& 
W& A& Wildhack, General Chairman, and Dr& C& M& 
Herzfeld, Program Chairman. Dr& A& V& Astin, ~NBS 
Director, opened the 5-day session with introductory remarks, following 
which a total of twenty-six papers were given throughout the week 
by ~NBS scientists, from both the Washington and Boulder Laboratories. 

#2.1.6. ATOMIC PHYSICS#

In addition to the basic programs 
in wavelength standards, spectroscopy, solid state physics, interactions 
of the free electron and atomic constants which are necessary to 
provide the foundation for technological progress, the Bureau has strengthened 
its activities in laboratory astrophysics. The programs in 
infrared spectroscopy are undergoing reorientation toward wavelength standards 
in the far infrared, the application of infrared techniques to 
solid state studies, and increased emphasis on high resolution instrumentation. 
Two data centers have been established for the collection, 
indexing, critical evaluation, and dissemination of bibliographies and 
critical values in the fields of transition probabilities and collision 
cross sections. _LABORATORY ASTROPHYSICS._ _TRANSITION PROBABILITIES._ 
Under the sponsorship of the Office of Naval Research 
and the Advanced Research Projects Agency, a data center was established 
to gather and index all published information on atomic transition 
probabilities. An exhaustive survey was made of the literature, 
and a primary reference file of approximately 600 references was catalogued. 
Selected bibliographies and tables of available data are now 
in preparation.   A wall-stabilized high-current arc source was 
constructed and used to study transition probabilities of atomic hydrogen 
and oxygen. This apparatus will also be used to measure transition 
probabilities of a large number of other elements. A study of the hydrogen 
line profiles indicates that a measurement of these profiles can 
be used to calculate a temperature for the arc plasma that is reliable 
to about **f percent.   A set of tables containing spectral intensities 
for 39,000 lines of 70 elements, as observed in a copper matrix 
in a ~d-c arc, was completed and published. Studies of the intensity 
data indicate that they may be converted to approximate transition 
probabilities. These data are not of the precision obtainable by 
the methods previously mentioned, but the vast number of approximate values 
available will be useful in many areas. _ATOMIC ENERGY LEVELS._ 
Research continues on the very complex spectra of the rare earth 
elements. New computer and automation techniques were applied to these 
spectra with considerable success. 
_(E)_ In addition to the penalties provided in title 18, United 
States Code, section 1001, any person guilty of any act, as provided 
therein, with respect to any matter under this Title, shall forfeit 
all rights under this Title, and, if payment shall have been made or 
granted, the Commission shall take such action as may be necessary to 
recover the same. _(F)_ In connection with any claim decided by 
the Commission pursuant to this Title in which an award is made, the 
Commission may, upon the written request of the claimant or any attorney 
heretofore or hereafter employed by such claimant, determine and 
apportion the just and reasonable attorney's fees for services rendered 
with respect to such claim, but the total amount of the fees so determined 
in any case shall not exceed 10 per centum of the total amount 
paid pursuant to the award. Written evidence that the claimant and 
any such attorney have agreed to the amount of the attorney's fees 
shall be conclusive upon the Commission: <Provided, however>, That 
the total amount of the fees so agreed upon does not exceed 10 per 
centum of the total amount paid pursuant to the award. Any fee so determined 
shall be entered as a part of such award, and payment thereof 
shall be made by the Secretary of the Treasury by deducting the amount 
thereof from the total amount paid pursuant to the award. Any agreement 
to the contrary shall be unlawful and void. The Commission is 
authorized and directed to mail to each claimant in proceedings before 
the Commission notice of the provisions of this subsection. Whoever, 
in the United States or elsewhere, pays or offers to pay, or promises 
to pay, or receives on account of services rendered or to be rendered 
in connection with any such claim, compensation which, when added 
to any amount previously paid on account of such services, will exceed 
the amount of fees so determined by the Commission, shall be guilty 
of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more 
than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than twelve months, or both, and 
if any such payment shall have been made or granted, the Commission 
shall take such action as may be necessary to recover the same, and, in 
addition thereto, any such person shall forfeit all rights under this 
title. _(G)_ The Attorney General shall assign such officers 
and employees of the Department of Justice as may be necessary to represent 
the United States as to any claims of the Government of the 
United States with respect to which the Commission has jurisdiction 
under this title. Any and all payments required to be made by the 
Secretary of the Treasury under this title pursuant to any award made 
by the Commission to the Government of the United States shall be 
covered into the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts. 
_(H)_ The Commission shall notify all claimants of the approval 
or denial of their claims, stating the reasons and grounds therefor, and 
if approved, shall notify such claimants of the amount for which such 
claims are approved. Any claimant whose claim is denied, or is approved 
for less than the full amount of such claim, shall be entitled, 
under such regulations as the Commission may prescribe, to a hearing 
before the Commission, or its duly authorized representatives, with 
respect to such claim. Upon such hearing, the Commission may affirm, 
modify, or revise its former action with respect to such claim, including 
a denial or reduction in the amount theretofore allowed with respect 
to such claim. The action of the Commission in allowing or denying 
any claim under this title shall be final and conclusive on all questions 
of law and fact and not subject to review by the Secretary of 
State or any other official, department, agency, or establishment of 
the United States or by any court by mandamus or otherwise. _(I)_ 
The Commission may in its discretion enter an award with respect 
to one or more items deemed to have been clearly established in an individual 
claim while deferring consideration and action on other items 
of the same claim. _(J)_ The Commission shall comply with the provisons 
of the Administrative Procedure Act of 1946 except as otherwise 
specifically provided by this title. _SEC& 5._ The Commission 
shall, as soon as possible, and in the order of the making of such 
awards, certify to the Secretary of the Treasury and to the Secretary 
of State copies of the awards made in favor of the Government 
of the United States or of nationals of the United States under this 
Title. The Commission shall certify to the Secretary of State, 
upon his request, copies of the formal submissions of claims filed pursuant 
to subsection (~b) of section 4 of this Act for transmission 
to 
the foreign government concerned. _SEC& 6._ The Commission shall 
complete its affairs in connection with settlement of United States-Yugoslav 
claims arising under the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 
1948 not later than December 31, 1954: <Provided>, That nothing 
in this provision shall be construed to limit the life of the Commission, 
or its authority to act on future agreements which may be effected 
under the provisions of this legislation. _SEC& 7. (A)_ Subject 
to the limitations hereinafter provided, the Secretary of the Treasury 
is authorized and directed to pay, as prescribed by section 8 
of this Title, an amount not exceeding the principal of each award, plus 
accrued interests on such awards as bear interest, certified pursuant 
to section 5 of this Title, in accordance with the award. Such payments, 
and applications for such payments, shall be made in accordance 
with such regulations as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe. 
_(B)_ There shall be deducted from the amount of each payment 
made pursuant to subsection (~c) of section 8, as reimbursement for 
the 
expenses incurred by the United States, an amount equal to 5 per 
centum of such payment. All amounts so deducted shall be covered into 
the Treasury to the credit of miscellaneous receipts. _(C)_ Payments 
made pursuant to this Title shall be made only to the person or 
persons on behalf of whom the award is made, except that- _(1)_ 
if such person is deceased or is under a legal disability, payment shall 
be made to his legal representative: <Provided>, That if the 
total award is not over $500 and there is no qualified executor or administrator, 
payment may be made to the person or persons found by the 
Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled thereto, 
without the necessity of compliance with the requirements of law with 
respect to the administration of estates; _(2)_ in the case of 
a partnership or corporation, the existence of which has been terminated 
and on behalf of which an award is made, payment shall be made, except 
as provided in paragraphs (3) and (4), to the person or persons found 
by the Comptroller General of the United States to be entitled 
thereto; _(3)_ if a receiver or trustee for any such partnership 
or corporation has been duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction 
in the United States and has not been discharged prior to the 
date of payment, payment shall be made to such receiver or trustee 
in accordance with the order of the court; _(4)_ if a receiver or 
trustee for any such partnership or corporation, duly appointed by a 
court of competent jurisdiction in the United States, makes an assignment 
of the claim, or any part thereof, with respect to which an award 
is made, or makes an assignment of such award, or any part thereof, 
payment shall be made to the assignee, as his interest may appear; 
and _(5)_ 
in the case of any assignment of an award, or any part thereof, 
which is made in writing and duly acknowledged and filed, after such 
award is certified to the Secretary of the Treasury, payment may, in 
the discretion of the Secretary of the Treasury, be made to the assignee, 
as his interest may appear. _(D)_ Whenever the Secretary 
of the Treasury, or the Comptroller General of the United States, 
as the case may be, shall find that any person is entitled to any such 
payment, after such payment shall have been received by such person, 
it shall be an absolute bar to recovery by any other person against 
the United States, its officers, agents, or employees with respect 
to such payment. _(E)_ Any person who makes application for any such 
payment shall be held to have consented to all the provisions of this 
Title. _(F)_ Nothing in the Title shall be construed as the 
assumption of any liability by the United States for the payment or 
satisfaction, in whole or in part, of any claim on behalf of any national 
of the United States against any foreign government. _SEC& 
8. (A)_ There are hereby created in the Treasury of the United States 
(1) a special fund to be known as the Yugoslav Claims Fund; 
and (2) such other special funds as may, in the discretion of the Secretary 
of the Treasury, be required each to be a claims fund to be 
known 
by the name of the foreign government which has entered into a settlement 
agreement with the Government of the United States as described 
in subsection (~a) 
of section 4 of this Title. There shall be covered 
into the Treasury to the credit of the proper special fund all funds 
hereinafter specified. All payments authorized under section 7 of this 
Title shall be disbursed from the proper fund, as the case may be, 
and all amounts covered into the Treasury to the credit of the aforesaid 
funds are hereby permanently appropriated for the making of the 
payments authorized by section 7 of this Title. _(B)_ The Secretary 
of the Treasury is authorized and directed to cover into- _(1)_ 
the Yugoslav Claims Fund the sum of $17,000,000 being the amount 
paid by the Government of the Federal People's Republic of 
Yugoslavia pursuant to the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948; _(2)_ 
a special fund created for that purpose pursuant to subsection 
(~a) 
of this section any amounts hereafter paid, in United States dollars, 
by a foreign government which has entered into a claims settlement 
agreement with the Government of the United States as described in 
subsection (~a) 
of section 4 of this Title. _(C)_ The Secretary 
of the Treasury is authorized and directed out of the sums covered into 
any of the funds pursuant to subsection (~b) of this section, 
and after 
making the deduction provided for in section 7 (~b) of this 
Title- 
_(1)_ to make payments in full of the principal of awards of $1,000 
or less, certified pursuant to section 5 of this Title; _(2)_ 
to make payments of $1,000 on the principal of each award of more 
than $1,000 in principal amount, certified pursuant 
to section 5 of this Title; _(3)_ to make additional payment 
of not to exceed 25 per centum of the unpaid principal of awards in the 
principal amount of more than $1,000; _(4)_ after completing the 
payments prescribed by paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection, to 
make payments, from time to time in ratable proportions, on account 
of the unpaid principal of all awards in the principal amount of more 
than $1,000, according to the proportions which the unpaid principal of 
such awards bear to the total amount in the fund available for distribution 
at the time such payments are made; and _(5)_ after payment 
has been made of the principal amounts of all such awards, to make 
pro rata payments on account of accrued interest on such awards as bear 
interest. _(D)_ The Secretary of the Treasury, upon the concurrence 
of the Secretary of State, is authorized and directed, out of 
the sum covered into the Yugoslav Claims Fund pursuant to subsection 
(~b) 
of this section, after completing the payments of such funds pursuant 
to subsection (~c) of this section, to make payment of the balance 
of any sum remaining in such fund to the Government of the Federal 
People's Republic of Yugoslavia to the extent required under article 
1 (~c) of the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948. The Secretary 
of State shall certify to the Secretary of the Treasury the 
total cost of adjudication, not borne by the claimants, attributable 
to the Yugoslav Claims Agreement of 1948. Such certification shall 
be final and conclusive and shall not be subject to review by any other 
official or department, agency, or establishment of the United States. 
_SEC& 9._ There is hereby authorized to be appropriated, 
out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums 
as may be necessary to enable the Commission to carry out its functions 
under this Title. 
_MR& DOOLEY._ Mr& Speaker, for several years now the commuter 
railroads serving our large metropolitan areas have found it increasingly 
difficult to render the kind of service our expanding population 
wants and is entitled to have. The causes of the decline of the commuter 
railroads are many and complex- high taxes, losses of revenue to 
Government subsidized highway and air carriers, to name but two. And 
the solutions to the problems of the commuter lines have been equally 
varied, ranging all the way from Government ownership to complete 
discontinuance of this important service.   There have been a number 
of sound plans proposed. But none of these has been implemented. 
Instead we have stood idly by, watched our commuter railroad service 
decline, and have failed to offer a helping hand. Though the number 
of people flowing in and out of our metropolitan areas each day has increased 
tremendously since World War /2,, total annual rail commutation 
dropped 124 million from 1947 to 1957. Nowhere has this decline 
been more painfully evident than in the New York City area. Here the 
New York Central Railroad, one of the Nation's most important 
carriers, has alone lost 47.6 percent of its passengers since 1949.

At this time of crisis in our Nation's commuter railroads, 
a new threat to the continued operations of the New York Central has 
appeared in the form of the Chesapeake + Ohio Railroad's proposal 
for control of the Baltimore + Ohio railroads.   The New York 
Central has pointed out that this control, if approved by the Interstate 
Commerce Commission, would give the combined C& + O&-B& 
+ O& Railroad a total of 185 points served in common with the 
New York Central. Not only is this kind of duplication wasteful, 
but it gives the combined system the ability to take freight traffic 
away from the New York Central and other railroads serving the area.

The New York Central notes: "  The freight traffic 
most susceptible to raiding by the C& + O&-B& + O& provides 
the backbone of Central's revenues. These revenues make it 
possible to provide essential freight and passenger service over the entire 
New York Central system as well as the New York area commuter 
and terminal freight services. If these services are to be maintained, 
the New York Central must have the revenues to make them possible".

The New York Central today handles 60 percent of all 
southbound commuter traffic coming into New York City. This is a 
$14 million operation involving 3,500 employees who work on commuter 
traffic exclusively. A blow to this phase of the Central's operations 
would have serious economic consequences not only to the railroad 
itself, but to the 40,000 people per day who are provided with efficient, 
reasonably priced transportation in and out of the city. " 
There is a workable alternative to this potentially dangerous and harmful 
C& + O&-B& + O& merger scheme"-   The Central 
has pointed out. "  The logic of creating a strong, balanced, 
competitive two-system railroad service in the East is so obvious 
that B& + O& was publicly committed to the approach outlined here.

Detailed studies of the plan were well underway. Though 
far from completion, these studies indicated beyond a doubt that savings 
would result which would be of unprecedented benefit to the railroads 
concerned, their investors, their customers, their users, and to the 
public at large.   Then, abandoning the studies in the face of 
their promising outlook for all concerned, B& + O& entered on-again-off-again 
negotiations with C& + O& which resulted in the present 
situation.   In the light of the facts at hand, however, 
New York Central intends to pursue the objective of helping to create 
a healthy two-system eastern railroad structure in the public interest".

The Interstate Commerce Commission will commence its 
deliberations on the proposed C& + O&-B& + O& merger on 
June 18. Obviously, the Interstate Commerce Commission will not force 
the New York Central to further curtail its commuter operations 
by giving undue competitive advantages to the lines that wish to merge.

However, there is a more profound consideration to this proposed 
merger than profit and loss. That is, will it serve the long-range 
public interest?   For the past 40 years Congress has advocated 
a carefully planned, balanced and competitive railway system. 
We must ask ourselves which of the two alternatives will help the commuter- 
the two-way B& + O&-C& + O& merger, or the three-way 
New York Central-B& + O&-C& + O& merger. Which will 
serve not only the best interest of the stockholders, but the interests 
of all the traveling public? 
_MR& LINDSAY._ Mr& Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to 
a great newspaper, the New York Times, on the occasion of a major change 
in its top executive command.   Arthur Hays Sulzberger has 
been a distinguished publisher of this distinguished newspaper and 
it is fitting that we take due notice of his major contribution to American 
journalism on the occasion of his retirement. I am pleased to 
note that Mr& Sulzberger will continue to serve as chairman of the 
board of the New York Times.   Mr& Sulzberger's successor 
as publisher is Mr& Orvil E& Dryfoos, who is president of the 
New York Times Co&, and who has been with the Times since 1942. 
Mr& Dryfoos' outstanding career as a journalist guarantees that 
the high standards which have made the Times one of the world's 
great newspapers will be maintained.   I am also pleased to note 
that Mr& John B& Oakes, a member of the Times staff since 1946, 
has been appointed as editorial page editor. Mr& Oakes succeeds 
Charles Merz, editor since 1938, who now becomes editor emeritus.

I should like at this time, Mr& Speaker, to pay warm tribute 
to Arthur Hays Sulzberger and Charles Merz on the occasion of 
their retirement from distinguished careers in American journalism.

My heartiest congratulations go to their successors, Orvil E& 
Dryfoos and John B& Oakes, who can be counted upon to sustain 
the illustrious tradition of the New York Times.   The people 
of the 17th District of New York, and I as their Representative 
in Congress, take great pride in the New York Times as one of the 
great and authoritative newspapers of the world. 
_MR& STRATTON._ Mr& Speaker, in my latest newsletter to my constituents 
I urged the imposition of a naval blockade of Cuba as the 
only effective method of preventing continued Soviet armaments from 
coming into the Western Hemisphere in violation of the Monroe Doctrine. 
Yesterday, I had the privilege of reading a thoughtful article 
in the U&S& News + World Report of May 8 which discussed this 
type of action in more detail, including both its advantages and its 
disadvantages.   Under leave to extend my remarks, I include 
the relevant portion of my newsletter, together with the text of the 
article from the U&S& News + World Report: "_YOUR CONGRESSMAN, 
SAMUEL S& STRATTON, REPORTS FROM WASHINGTON, MAY 1, 1961_ 
Cuban S&S&R&: Whatever may have been the setbacks resulting 
from the unsuccessful attempt of the Cuban rebels to establish 
a beachhead on the Castro-held mainland last week, there was at least 
one positive benefit, and that was the clear-cut revelation to the 
whole world of the complete conversion of Cuba into a Russian-dominated 
military base.   In fact, one of the major reasons for the 
failure of the ill-starred expedition appears to have been a lack of full 
information on the extent to which Cuba has been getting this Russian 
military equipment. Somehow, the pictures and stories of Soviet 
~T-34 tanks on Cuban beaches and Russian Mig jet fighters strafing 
rebel troops has brought home to all of us the stark, blunt truth 
of what it means to have a Russian military base 90 miles away from 
home. Russian tanks and planes in Cuba jeopardize the security of 
the United States, violate the Monroe Doctrine, and threaten the 
security of every other Latin American republic.   Once the full 
extent of this Russian military penetration of Cuba was clear, President 
Kennedy announced we would take whatever action was appropriate 
to prevent this, even if we had to go it alone. But the Latin American 
republics who have been rather inclined to drag their feet on 
taking action against Castro also reacted swiftly last week by finally 
throwing Cuba off the Inter-American Defense Board. For years 
the United States had been trying to get these countries to exclude 
Castro's representative from secret military talks. But it took the 
pictures of the Migs and the ~T-34 tanks to do the job. There 
is a new atmosphere of urgency in Washington this week. You can see 
it, for example, in the extensive efforts President Kennedy has made 
to enlist solid bipartisan support for his actions toward both Cuba 
and Laos; efforts, 
as I see it, which are being directed, by the way, toward 
support for future actions, not for those already past.   What 
the next move will be only time, of course, will tell. Personally, 
I think we ought to set up an immediate naval blockade of Cuba. We 
simply can't tolerate further Russian weapons, including the possibility 
of long-range nuclear missiles, being located in Cuba. Obviously, 
we can't stop them from coming in, however, just by talk. A naval 
blockade would be thoroughly in line with the Monroe Doctrine, would 
be a relatively simple operation to carry out, and would bring an 
abrupt end to Soviet penetration of our hemisphere". @ "#[FROM 
U&S& NEWS + WORLD REPORT, MAY 8, 1961]#

_NEXT FOR CUBA: 
AN ARMS BLOCKADE?_ Look at Castro now- cockier than ever 
with arms and agents to threaten the Americas.   How can the 
United States act?   Blockade is one answer offered by experts. 
In it they see a way to isolate Cuba, stop infiltration, maybe finish 
Castro, too.   This is the question now facing President 
Kennedy: How to put a stop to the Soviet buildup in Cuba and to 
Communist infiltration of this hemisphere?   On April 25, the 
White House reported that a total embargo of remaining U&S& 
trade with Cuba was being considered. Its aim: To undermine further 
Cuba's economy. weaken Castro.   Another strategy- bolder 
and tougher- was also attracting notice in Washington: a naval 
and air blockade to cut Cuba off from the world, destroy Castro.

Blockade, in the view of military and civilian experts, could restore 
teeth to the Monroe Doctrine. It could halt a flood of Communist 
arms and strategic supplies now reaching Castro. It could stop 
Cuban re-export of guns and propaganda materials to South America. 
It would be the most severe reprisal, short of declared war, that the 
United States could invoke against Castro.   It is the strategy 
of blockade, therefore, that is suddenly at the center of attention 
of administration officials, Members of Congress, officers in the 
Pentagon. As a possible course of action, it also is the center of 
debate and is raising many questions. Among these questions: _WHAT 
WOULD 
A CUBA BLOCKADE TAKE?_ Military experts say a tight naval blockade 
off Cuban ports and at the approaches to Cuban waters would require 
two naval task forces, each built around an aircraft carrier with 
a complement of about 100 planes and several destroyers.   The 
Navy, on April 25, announced it is bringing back the carrier <Shangri-La> 
from the Mediterranean, increasing to four the number of 
attack carriers in the vicinity of Cuba. More than 36 other big Navy 
ships are no less than a day's sailing time away.   To round 
out the blockading force, submarines would be needed- to locate, identify 
and track approaching vessels. Land-based radar would help with 
this task. So would radar picket ships. A squadron of Navy jets and 
another of long-range patrol planes would add support to the carrier 
task forces.   Three requirements go with a blockade: It must 
be proclaimed; the blockading force must be powerful enough to enforce 
it; and it must be enforced without discrimination.   Once 
these conditions of international law are met, countries that try to 
run to blockade do so at their own risk. Blockade runners can be stopped- 
by gunfire, if necessary- searched and held, at least temporarily. 
They could be sent to U&S& ports for rulings whether cargo 
should be confiscated. _WHAT COULD A BLOCKADE ACCOMPLISH?_ Plenty, 
say the experts. In a broad sense, it would reaffirm the Monroe 
Doctrine by opposing Communist interference in the Western Hemisphere. 
It could, by avoiding direct intervention, provide a short-of-war 
strategy to meet short-of-war infiltration.   Primary target 
would be shipments of tanks, guns, aviation gasoline and ammunition 
coming from Russia and Czechoslovakia. Shipments of arms from Western 
countries could similarly be seized as contraband. In a total blockade, 
action could also be taken against ships bringing in chemicals, 
oils, textiles, and even foodstuffs. At times, three ships a day from 
the Soviet bloc are unloading in Cuban ports. 
From its inception in 1920 with the passage of Public Law 236, 66th 
Congress, the purpose of the vocational rehabilitation program has been 
to assist the States, by means of grants-in-aid, to return disabled 
men and women to productive, gainful employment. The authority for 
the program was renewed several times until the vocational rehabilitation 
program was made permanent as Title /5, of the Social Security 
Act in 1935. Up to this time and for the next eight years, the services 
provided disabled persons consisted mainly of training, counseling, 
and placement on a job. Recognizing the limitations of such a program, 
the 78th Congress in 1943 passed P& L& 113, which broadened 
the concept of rehabilitation to include the provision of physical 
restoration services to remove or reduce disabilities, and which revised 
the financing structure. _RECENT CHANGES._ Despite the successful 
rehabilitation of over a half million disabled persons in the first 
eleven years after 1943, the existing program was still seen to be 
inadequate to cope with the nation's backlog of an estimated two million 
disabled. To assist the States, therefore, in rehabilitating handicapped 
individuals, "so that they may prepare for and engage in remunerative 
employment to the extent of their capabilities", the 83rd 
Congress enacted the Vocational Rehabilitation Amendments of 1954 
(P& L& 565). These amendments to the Vocational Rehabilitation 
Act were designed to help provide for more specialized rehabilitation 
facilities, for more sheltered and "half-way" workshops, for 
greater numbers of adequately trained personnel, for more comprehensive 
services to individuals (particularly to the homebound and the blind), 
and for other administrative improvements to increase the program's 
overall effectiveness. _FINANCIAL ASPECTS._ Under the law as it 
existed until 1943, the Federal Government made grants to the States 
on the basis of population, matching State expenditures on a 50-50 
basis. Under P& L& 113, 78th Congress, the Federal Government 
assumed responsibility for 100% of necessary State expenditures 
in connection with administration and the counseling and placement of 
the disabled, and for 50% of the necessary costs of providing clients 
with rehabilitation case services. Throughout these years, the statutory 
authorization was for such sums as were necessary to carry out 
the provisions of the Act.   The 1954 Amendments completely changed 
the financing of the vocational rehabilitation program, providing 
for a three-part grant structure- for (1) basic support; (2) extension 
and improvement; and (3) research, demonstrations, training and 
traineeships for vocational rehabilitation- and in addition for 
short-term training and instruction. The first part of the new structure- 
that for supporting the basic program of vocational rehabilitation 
services- is described in this Section. Subsequent sections 
on grants describe the other categories of the grant structure.

The following table shows, for selected years, the authorizations, 
appropriations, allotment base, Federal grants to States and State 
matching funds for this part of the grant program: 

#METHOD OF 
DISTRIBUTING FUNDS#

_DESCRIPTION OF FORMULA._ In order to assist 
the States in maintaining basic vocational rehabilitation services, Section 
2 of the amended Act provides that allotments to States for 
support of such services be based on (1) need, as measured by a State's 
population, and (2) fiscal capacity, as measured by its per capita 
income. The Act further provides for a "floor" or minimum allotment, 
set at the 1954 level, which is called the "base" allotment, 
and a "ceiling" or maximum allotment, for each State. It stipulates, 
in addition, that all amounts remaining as a result of imposing 
the "ceiling", 
and not used for insuring the "floor", be redistributed 
to those States still below their maximums. These provisions 
are designed to reflect the differences in wealth and population among 
the States, with the objective that a vocationally handicapped person 
have access to needed services regardless of whether he resides in 
a State with a low or high per capita income or a sparsely or thickly 
populated State. The provisions are also designed to avoid disruption 
in State programs already in operation, which might otherwise result 
from the allotment of funds on the basis of wealth and population 
alone. _METHOD OF COMPUTING ALLOTMENTS._ The method used in computing 
the allotments is specifically set forth in the Act. The term 
"State" means the several States, the District of Columbia, the 
Virgin Islands, Guam and Puerto Rico; the term "United States" 
includes the several States and the District of Columbia, and 
excludes the Virgin Islands, Guam and Puerto Rico, and, prior 
to 
1962, Alaska and Hawaii. The following steps are employed in calculations: 
_1._ For each State (except Puerto Rico, Guam, the 
Virgin Islands, and, prior to 1962, Alaska and Hawaii) determine 
average per capita income based on the last three years. (See <Source 
of Data>, below for per capita income data to be used in this step.) 
_2._ Determine the average per capita income for the U& S& 
based on the last three years. (See <Source of Data>, below, 
for per capita income data to be used in this step.) _3._ Determine 
the ratio of 50% to the average per capita income of the U& S& 
(Divide 50 by the result obtained in item 2 above.) _4._ Determine 
for each State (except the Virgin Islands, Guam and Puerto 
Rico, and, prior to 1962, Alaska and Hawaii) that percentage which 
bears the same ratio to 50% as the particular State's average per 
capita income bears to the average per capita income of the U& S&. 
(Multiply the result obtained in item 3 above by the result obtained 
for each State in item 1 above.) _5._ Determine the particular 
State's "allotment percentage". By law this is 75% for 
the Virgin Islands, Guam and Puerto Rico. (Alaska and Hawaii had 
fixed allotment percentages in effect prior to fiscal year 1962.)

In all other States it is the difference obtained by subtracting 
from 100 the result obtained in item 4 above; <except> that no 
State shall have an allotment percentage less than 33-1/3% nor more 
than 75%. If the resulting difference for the particular State is 
less or more than these extremes, the State's allotment percentage 
must be raised or lowered to the appropriate extreme. _6._ Square 
each State's allotment percentage. _7._ Determine each State's 
population. (See <Source of Data>, below for population data 
to be used in this step.) _8._ Multiply the population of each 
State by the square of its allotment percentage. (Multiply result obtained 
in item 7 above, by result obtained in item 6 above.) _9._ 
Determine the sum of the products obtained in item 8 above, for all the 
States. (For each State, make all computations set forth in items 
1 to 8 above, and then add the results obtained for each State in item 
8.) _10._ Determine the ratio that the amount being allotted 
is to the sum of the products for all the States. (Divide the amount 
being allotted by the result obtained in item 9 above.) _11._ Determine 
the particular State's unadjusted allotment for the particular 
fiscal year. (Multiply the State product in item 8 above by the 
result obtained in item 10 above.) _12._ Determine if the particular 
State's unadjusted allotment (result obtained in item 11 above) 
is greater than its maximum allotment, and if so lower its unadjusted 
allotment to its maximum allotment. (Each State's unadjusted allotment 
for any fiscal year, which exceeds its minimum allotment described 
in item 13 below by a percentage greater than one and one-half times 
the percentage by which the sum being allotted exceeds $23,000,000, 
must be reduced by the amount of the excess.) _13._ Determine if 
the particular State's unadjusted allotment (result obtained in item 
11 above) is less than its minimum (base) allotment, and if so raise 
its unadjusted 
allotment to its minimum allotment. Regardless of its unadjusted 
allotment, each State is guaranteed by law a minimum allotment 
each year equal to the allotment which it received in fiscal year 1954- 
increased by a uniform percentage of 5.4865771 which brings total 
1954 allotments to all States up to $23,000,000. _14._ The funds 
recouped by reductions in item 12 above are used: first, to increase 
the unadjusted allotments to the specified minimum in those States 
where the unadjusted allotment is less than the minimum allotment (item 
13 above); and second, to increase uniformly the allotments to those 
States whose allotments are below their maximums, with adjustments 
to prevent the allotment of any State from thereby exceeding its maximum. 
_ADDITIONAL NOTE ON ALLOTMENTS._ For the States which maintain 
two separate agencies- one for the vocational rehabilitation of 
the blind, and one for the rehabilitation of persons other than the 
blind- the Act specifies that their minimum (base) allotment shall 
be divided between the two agencies in the same proportion as it was divided 
in fiscal year 1954. Funds allotted in addition to their minimum 
allotment are apportioned to the two agencies as they may determine. 

#MATCHING REQUIREMENTS#

_EXPLANATION OF MATCHING FORMULA._ As 
is the case with the allotment provisions for support of vocational 
rehabilitation services, the matching requirements are also based on 
a statutory formula. Prior to 1960, in order to provide matching for 
the minimum (base) allotment, State funds had to equal 1954 State funds. 
Prior to and since 1960 the rest of the support allotment is matched 
at rates related to the fiscal capacity of the State, with a pivot 
of 40% State (or 60% Federal) participation in total program 
costs. The percentage of Federal participation in such costs for any 
State is referred to in the law as that State's "Federal share". 
For purposes of this explanation, this percentage is referred to 
as the States "unadjusted Federal share". Beginning in 1960, the 
matching requirements for the base allotment are being adjusted (upward 
or downward, as required) 25% a year, so that by 1963 the entire 
support allotment will be matched on the basis of a 40% pivot State 
share, with maximum and minimum State shares of 50% and 30%, respectively. 
The pre-1960 rate of Federal participation with respect 
to any State's base allotment, as well as the adjusted rate in effect 
during the 1960-1962 period, is designated by the statute as that 
State's "adjusted Federal Share". The provisions for determining 
a State's unadjusted Federal share are designed to reflect the 
varying financial resources among the States. The purpose of the adjusted 
Federal share relating to the base allotment and of the transition 
provisions 
for reaching the unadjusted Federal share is to prevent 
dislocations from abrupt changes in matching rates. _METHOD OF COMPUTING 
FEDERAL SHARES._ The method used for computing the respective 
Federal and State shares in total program costs is specifically set 
forth in the Act. The term "State" means the several States, 
the District of Columbia, the Virgin Islands, Guam and Puerto Rico; 
the term "United States" includes the several States and 
the District of Columbia and excludes the Virgin Islands, Guam 
and Puerto Rico, and, prior to 1962, Alaska and Hawaii. The following 
steps are employed in the calculations: _1._ For each State 
(except the Virgin Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, and, prior to 1962, 
Alaska and Hawaii), determine the average per capita income for 
the last three years. (the same amount used in item 1 under <Method 
of Computing allotments>, above.) _2._ Determine the average 
per capita income for the United States for the last three years. (The 
same amount used in item 2 under <Method of Computing Allotments>, 
above.) _3._ Determine the ratio of 40% to the average per 
capita income of the United States. (Divide 40 by the amount used 
in item 2 above.) _4._ Determine for each State (except the Virgin 
Islands, Guam, Puerto Rico, and, prior to 1962, Alaska and hawaii), 
that percentage which bears the same ration to 40% as the particular 
State's average per capita income bears to the average per 
capita income of the United States. (Multiply the result obtained 
in item 3 above by the amount used for each State in item 1 above.) _5._ 
Determine the particular State's "Federal Share". By 
law this is 70% for the Virgin Islands, Guam and Puerto Rico. 
(Alaska and Hawaii had fixed Federal share percentages in effect prior 
to fiscal year 1962.)   In all other States it is the difference 
obtained by subtracting from 100 the result obtained in item 4 
above; <except> 
that no State shall have a Federal share less than 
50% nor more than 70%. If the resulting difference for the particular 
State is less or more than these extremes, the State's Federal 
share must be raised or lowered to the appropriate extreme.

At the entrance side of the shelter, each roof beam is rested 
on the inside 4 inches of the block wall. The outside 4-inch space is 
filled by mortaring blocks on edge. The wooden bracing between the roof 
beams is placed flush with the inside of the wall. Mortar is poured 
between this bracing and the 4-inch blocks on edge to complete the 
wall thickness for radiation shielding. (For details see inset, fig& 
5.)   The first one or two roof boards (marked "~E" in 
fig& 6) are slipped into place across the roof beams, from outside 
the shelter. These boards are nailed to the roof beams by reaching up 
through the open space between the beams, from inside the shelter. Concrete 
blocks are passed between the beams and put on the boards. The 
roof blocks are in two layers and are not mortared together. 
Work on the roof continues in this way. The last roof boards are covered 
with blocks from outside the shelter.   When the roof blocks 
are all in place, the final rows of wall blocks are mortared into position. 
The structure is complete. (See fig& 7.) Building plans are 
on page 21.   Solid concrete blocks, relatively heavy and dense, 
are used for this shelter. These blocks are sold in various sizes 
so it seldom is necessary to cut a block to fit.   Solid blocks 
are recommended because hollow blocks would have to be filled with concrete 
to give effective protection.   Bricks are an alternative. 
If they are used, the walls and roof should be 10 inches thick to give 
the same protection as the 8-inch solid concrete blocks.   The 
illustrations in fig& 8 show how to lay a concrete block wall. More 
detailed instructions may be obtained from your local building supply 
houses and craftsmen. Other sources of information include the National 
Concrete Masonry Association, 38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Ill&, the Portland Cement Association, 33 West Grand 
Avenue, Chicago, Ill&, and the Structural Clay Products Association, 
Washington, D&C&. _ABOVEGROUND DOUBLE-WALL SHELTER_ 
An outdoor, aboveground fallout shelter also may be built with concrete 
blocks. (See fig& 9, double-wall shelter.) Most people would 
have to hire a contractor to build this shelter. Plans are on pages 
22 and 23.   This shelter could be built in regions where water 
or rock is close to the surface, making it impractical to build an underground 
shelter.   Two walls of concrete blocks are constructed 
at least 20 inches apart. The space between them is filled with pit-run 
gravel or earth. The walls are held together with metal ties placed 
in the wet mortar as the walls are built.   The roof shown here 
(fig& 9) is a 6-inch slab of reinforced concrete, covered with at 
least 20 inches of pit-run gravel. An alternate roof, perhaps more 
within do-it-yourself reach, could be constructed of heavy wooden roof 
beams, overlaid with boards and waterproofing. It would have to be covered 
with at least 28 inches of pit-run gravel.   The materials 
for a double-wall shelter would cost about $700. Contractors' charges 
would be additional. The shelter would provide almost absolute fallout 
protection. _PRE-SHAPED METAL SHELTER_ Pre-shaped corrugated 
metal sections or pre-cast concrete can be used for shelters either 
above or below ground. These are particularly suitable for regions where 
water or rock is close to the surface. They form effective fallout 
shelters when mounded over with earth, as shown in figure 10. 
Materials for this shelter would cost about $700. A contractor probably 
would be required to help build it. His charges would be added to 
the cost of materials. This shelter, as shown on page 24, would provide 
almost absolute protection from fallout radiation. An alternate 
hatchway entrance, shown on page 25, would reduce the cost of materials 
$50 to $100.   The National Lumber Manufacturers Association, 
Washington, D& C&, is developing plans to utilize specially 
treated lumber for underground shelter construction. The Structural 
Clay Products Institute, Washington, D&C&, is working to develop 
brick and clay products suitable for shelter construction. _UNDERGROUND 
CONCRETE SHELTER_ An underground reinforced concrete shelter 
can be built by a contractor for about $1,000 to $1,500, depending 
on the type of entrance. The shelter shown would provide almost absolute 
fallout protection.   The illustration (fig& 11) shows this 
shelter with the roof at ground level and mounded over. The same shelter 
could be built into an embankment or below ground level. Plans 
for the shelter, with either a stairway or hatchway entrance, are shown 
on pages 26 and 27.   Another type of shelter which gives excellent 
fallout protection can be built as an added room to the basement 
of a home under construction. It would add about $500 to the total 
cost of the home. The shelter illustrated in figure 12 is based on such 
a room built in a new home in the Washington, D&C& area in the 
Spring of 1959.   {IMPORTANT CONSIDERATIONS} common 
to each type of shelter are: _1._ Arrangement of the entrance. 
_2._ Ventilation. _3._ Radio reception. _4._ Lighting.

{THE ENTRANCE} must have at least one right-angle turn. 
Radiation scatters somewhat like light. Some will go around a corner. 
The rest continues in a straight line. Therefore, sharp turns 
in a shelter entrance will reduce radiation intensity inside the shelter.

{VENTILATION} is provided in a concrete block basement 
shelter by vents in the wall and by the open entrance. A blower 
may be installed to increase comfort.   A blower is essential 
for the double-wall shelter and for the underground shelters. It should 
provide not less than 5 cubic feet per minute of air per person. Vent 
pipes also are necessary (as shown in figs& 9, 10, and 11), but 
filters are not.   {RADIO RECEPTION} is cut down by the 
shielding necessary to keep out radiation. As soon as the shelter is 
completed a radio reception check must be made. It probably will be 
necessary to install an outside antenna, particularly to receive ~CONELRAD 
broadcasts.   {LIGHTING} is an important 
consideration. Continuous low-level lighting may be provided in the 
shelter by means of a 4-cell hot-shot battery to which is wired a 150-milliampere 
flashlight-type bulb. Tests have shown that such a device, 
with a fresh battery, will furnish light continuously for at least 
10 days. With a spare battery, a source of light for 2 weeks or more 
would be assured. A flashlight or electric lantern also should be available 
for those periods when a brighter light is needed. There should 
be a regular electrical outlet in the shelter as power may continue 
in many areas.   {OTHER CONSIDERATIONS}.- If there 
are outside windows in the basement corner where you build a shelter, 
they should be shielded as shown in the Appendix, page 29. Other basement 
windows should be blocked when an emergency threatens. Basement 
walls that project above the ground should be shielded as shown in the 
Appendix, page 29.   In these shelters the entrance should be 
not more than 2 feet wide. Bunks, or materials to build them, may have 
to be put inside the enclosure before the shelter walls are completed.

The basement or belowground shelters also will serve for tornado 
or hurricane protection. #/3,. LIVING IN A SHELTER#

@ 
The 
radioactivity of fallout decays rapidly at first. <Forty-nine hours 
after an atomic burst the radiation intensity is only about 1 percent 
of what it was an hour after the explosion. But the radiation may 
be so intense at the start that one percent may be extremely dangerous>.

Therefore, civil defense instructions received over ~CONELRAD 
or by other means should be followed. A battery-powered 
radio is essential. Radiation instruments suitable for home use are 
available, and would be of value in locating that portion of the home 
which offers the best protection against fallout radiation. There is 
a possibility that battery-powered radios with built-in radiation meters 
may become available. One instrument thus would serve both purposes.

Your local civil defense will gather its own information and 
will receive broad information from State and Federal sources. It 
will tell you as soon as possible:   How long to stay in your 
shelter.   How soon you may go outdoors.   How long you 
may stay outside.   You should be prepared to stay in your shelter 
full time for at least several days and to make it your home for 14 
days or longer. A checklist in the Appendix, (page 30) tells what is 
needed. Families with children will have particular problems. They 
should provide for simple recreation.   There should be a task 
for everyone and these tasks should be rotated. Part of the family should 
be sleeping while the rest is awake.   To break the monotony 
it may be necessary to invent tasks that will keep the family busy. 
Records such as diaries can be kept.   The survival of the family 
will depend largely on information received by radio. A record should 
be kept of the information and instructions, including the time and 
date of broadcast.   Family rationing probably will be necessary.

Blowers should be operated periodically on a regular schedule. 
There will come a time in a basement shelter when the radiation 
has decayed enough to allow use of the whole basement. However, as 
much time as possible should be spent within the shelter to hold radiation 
exposure to a minimum.   The housekeeping problems of living 
in a shelter will begin as soon as the shelter is occupied. Food, medical 
supplies, utensils, and equipment, if not already stored in the 
shelter, must be quickly gathered up and carried into it.   After 
the family has settled in the shelter, the housekeeping rules should 
be spelled out by the adult in charge.   Sanitation in the confines 
of the family shelter will require much thought and planning.

Provision for emergency toilet facilities and disposal of human 
wastes will be an unfamiliar problem. A covered container such as a kitchen 
garbage pail might do as a toilet. A 10-gallon garbage can, with 
a tightly fitting cover, could be used to keep the wastes until it 
is safe to leave the shelter.   Water rationing will be difficult 
and should be planned carefully.   A portable electric heater 
is advisable for shelters in cold climates. It would take the chill from 
the shelter in the beginning. Even if the electric power fails after 
an attack, any time that the heater has been used will make the shelter 
that much more comfortable. Body heat in the close quarters will 
help keep up the temperature. Warm clothing and bedding, of course, 
are essential.   Open-flame heating or cooking should be avoided. 
A flame would use up air.   Some families already have held 
weekend rehearsals in their home shelters to learn the problems and to 
determine for themselves what supplies they would need. #/4,. IF 
AN ATTACK FINDS YOU WITHOUT A PREPARED SHELTER#

@ Few areas, if any, 
are as good as prepared shelters but they are worth knowing about.

A family dwelling without a basement provides some natural shielding 
from fallout radiation. On the ground floor the radiation would 
be about half what it is outside. The best protection would be on 
the ground floor in the central part of the house.   A belowground 
basement can cut the fallout radiation to one-tenth of the outside 
level. The safest place is the basement corner least exposed to windows 
and deepest below ground.   If there is time after the warning, 
the basement shielding could be improved substantially by blocking 
windows with bricks, dirt, books, magazines, or other heavy material. 
#/5,. SHELTER IN APARTMENT BUILDINGS#

@ Large apartment buildings 
of masonry or concrete provide better natural shelter than the usual 
family dwellings. In general, such apartments afford more protection 
than smaller buildings because their walls are thick and there is 
more space.   The central area of the ground floor of a heavily 
constructed apartment building, with concrete floors, should provide 
more fallout protection than the ordinary basement of a family dwelling. 
The basement of such an apartment building may provide as much natural 
protection as the specially constructed concrete block shelter recommended 
for the basement of a family dwelling.   The Federal 
Government is aiding local governments in several places to survey residential, 
commercial and industrial buildings to determine what fallout 
protection they would provide, and for how many people.   The 
problem for the city apartment dweller is primarily to plan the use 
of existing space. Such planning will require the cooperation of other 
occupants and of the apartment management.

A former du Pont official became a General Motors vice president 
and set about maximizing du Pont's share of the General Motors 
market. Lines of communications were established between the two 
companies and several du Pont products were actively promoted. Within 
a few years various du Pont manufactured items were filling the entire 
requirements of from four to seven of General Motors' eight operating 
divisions. The Fisher Body division, long controlled by the 
Fisher brothers under a voting trust even though General Motors owned 
a majority of its stock, followed an independent course for many years, 
but by 1947 and 1948 "resistance had collapsed" and its purchases 
from du Pont "compared favorably" with purchases by other General 
Motors divisions. Competitors came to receive higher percentage 
of General Motors business in later years, but it is "likely" 
that this trend stemmed "at least in part" from the needs of General 
Motors outstripping du Pont's capacity. "  The fact 
that sticks out in this voluminous record is that the bulk of du Pont's 
production has always supplied the largest part of the requirements 
of the one customer in the automobile industry connected to du Pont 
by a stock interest. The inference is overwhelming that du Pont's 
commanding position was promoted by its stock interest and was not gained 
solely on competitive merit". 353 U& S&, at 605. 
This Court agreed with the trial court "that considerations of price, 
quality and service were not overlooked by either du Pont or General 
Motors". 353 U& S&, at 606. However, it determined that 
neither this factor, nor "the fact that all concerned in high executive 
posts in both companies acted honorably and fairly, each in the 
honest conviction that his actions were in the best interests of his own 
company and without any design to overreach anyone, including du Pont's 
competitors", 353 U& S&, at 607, outweighed the Government's 
claim for relief. This claim, as submitted to the District 
Court and dismissed by it, 126 F&Supp&235, alleged violation 
not only of @ 7 of the Clayton Act, but also of @ @ 1 and 2 of 
the Sherman Act. The latter provisions proscribe any contract, combination, 
or conspiracy in restraint of interstate or foreign trade, and 
monopolization of, or attempts, combinations, or conspiracies to monopolize, 
such trade. However, this Court put to one side without consideration 
the Government's appeal from the dismissal of its Sherman 
Act allegations. It rested its decision solely on @ 7, which reads 
in pertinent part: "  [N]o corporation engaged in commerce 
shall acquire, directly or indirectly, the whole or any part of 
the stock or other share capital of another corporation engaged also in 
commerce, where the effect of such acquisition may be to substantially 
lessen competition between the corporation whose stock is so acquired 
and the corporation making the acquisition, or to restrain such commerce 
in any section or community, or tend to create a monopoly of any 
line of commerce. @   This section shall not apply to corporations 
purchasing such stock solely for investment and not using the same 
by voting or otherwise to bring about, or in attempting to bring about, 
the substantial lessening of competition **h".   The purpose 
of this provision was thus explained in the Court's opinion: 
"  Section 7 is designed to arrest in its incipiency not only 
the substantial lessening of competition from the acquisition by one corporation 
of the whole or any part of the stock of a competing corporation, 
but also to arrest in their incipiency restraints or monopolies 
in a relevant market which, as a reasonable probability, appear at the 
time of suit likely to result from the acquisition by one corporation 
of all or any part of the stock of any other corporation. The section 
is violated whether or not actual restraints or monopolies, or the substantial 
lessening of competition, have occurred or are intended **h". 
353 U& S&, at 589.   Thus, a finding of conspiracy to 
restrain trade or attempt to monopolize was excluded from the Court's 
decision. Indeed, as already noted, the Court proceeded on the assumption 
that the executives involved in the dealings between du Pont 
and General Motors acted "honorably and fairly" and exercised 
their business judgment only to serve what they deemed the best interests 
of their own companies. This, however, did not bar finding that du 
Pont had become pre-eminent as a supplier of automotive fabrics and 
finishes to General Motors; that these products constituted a "line 
of commerce" within the meaning of the Clayton Act; that General 
Motors' share of the market for these products was substantial; 
and that competition for this share of the market was endangered 
by the financial relationship between the two concerns: "  The 
statutory policy of fostering free competition is obviously furthered 
when no supplier has an advantage over his competitors from an acquisition 
of his customer's stock likely to have the effects condemned 
by the statute. We repeat, that the test of a violation of @ 7 is 
whether, at the time of suit, there is a reasonable probability that 
the acquisition is likely to result in the condemned restraints. The 
conclusion upon this record is inescapable that such likelihood was proved 
as to this acquisition **h". 353 U& S&, at 607.   On 
the basis of the findings which led to this conclusion, the Court remanded 
the case to the District Court to determine the appropriate 
relief. The sole guidance given the Court for discharging the task committed 
to it was this: "  The judgment must therefore be reversed 
and the cause remanded to the District Court for a determination, 
after further hearing, of the equitable relief necessary and appropriate 
in the public interest to eliminate the effects of the acquisition 
offensive to the statute. The District Courts, in the framing 
of equitable decrees, are clothed 'with large discretion to model 
their judgments to fit the exigencies of the particular case'. <International 
Salt Co&> 
v& <United States,> 332 U& S& 392, 
400-401". 353 U& S&, at 607-608.   This brings us to the 
course of the proceedings in the District Court. #/2,.#

This 
Court's judgment was filed in the District Court on July 18, 
1957. The first pretrial conference- held to appoint <amici curiae> 
to represent the interest of the stockholders of du Pont and General 
Motors and to consider the procedure to be followed in the subsequent 
hearings- took place on September 25, 1957. At the outset, the 
Government's spokesman explained that counsel for the Government 
and for du Pont had already held preliminary discussions with a view 
to arriving at a relief plan that both sides could recommend to the court. 
Du Pont, he said, had proposed disenfranchisement of its General 
Motors stock along with other restrictions on the du Pont-General 
Motors relationship. The Government, deeming these suggestions inadequate, 
had urged that any judgment include divestiture of du Pont's 
shares of General Motors. Counsel for the Government invited 
du Pont's views on this proposal before recommending a specific program, 
but stated that if the court desired, or if counsel for du Pont 
thought further discussion would not be profitable, the Government 
was prepared to submit a plan within thirty days.   Counsel for 
du Pont indicated a preference for the submission of detailed plans by 
both sides at an early date. No previous antitrust case, he said, had 
involved interests of such magnitude or presented such complex problems 
of relief. The submission of detailed plans would place the issues 
before the court more readily than would discussion of divestiture 
or disenfranchisement in the abstract. The Court adopted this procedure 
with an appropriate time schedule for carrying it out.   The 
Government submitted its proposed decree on October 25, 1957. The 
plan called for divestiture by du Pont of its 63,000,000 shares of General 
Motors stock by equal annual distributions to its stockholders, 
as a dividend, over a period of ten years. Christiana Securities Company 
and Delaware Realty + Investment Company, major stockholders 
in du Pont, and the stockholders of Delaware were dealt with specially 
by provisions requiring the annual sale by a trustee, again over 
a ten-year period, of du Pont's General Motors stock allocable to 
them, as well as any General Motors stock which Christiana and Delaware 
owned outright. If, in the trustee's judgment, "reasonable 
market conditions" did not prevail during any given year, he was to 
be allowed to petition the court for an extension of time within the 
ten-year period. In addition, the right to vote the General Motors 
stock held by du Pont was to be vested in du Pont's stockholders, 
other than Christiana and Delaware and the stockholders of Delaware; 
du Pont, Christiana, and Delaware were to be enjoined from acquiring 
stock in or exercising control over General Motors; du Pont, 
Christiana, and Delaware were to be prohibited to have any director 
or officer in common with General Motors, and vice versa; and 
General Motors and du Pont were to be ordered to terminate any agreement 
that provided for the purchase by General Motors of any specified 
percentage of its requirements of any du Pont manufactured product, 
or for the grant of exclusive patent rights, or for a grant by General 
Motors to du Pont of a preferential right to make or sell any 
chemical discovery of General Motors, or for the maintenance of any 
joint commercial enterprise by the two companies.   On motion of 
the <amici 
curiae,> the court directed that a ruling be obtained from 
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue as to the federal income tax 
consequences of the Government's plan. On May 9, 1958, the Commissioner 
announced his rulings. The annual dividends paid to du Pont 
stockholders in shares of General Motors stock would be taxable as ordinary 
income to the extent of du Pont's earnings and profits. The 
measure, for federal income tax purposes, of the dividend to individual 
stockholders would be the fair market value of the shares at the time 
of each annual distribution. In the case of taxpaying corporate stockholders, 
the measure would be the lesser of the fair market value 
of the shares or du Pont's tax basis for them, which is approximately 
$2.09 per share. The forced sale of the General Motors stock owned 
by or allocable to Christiana, Delaware, and the stockholders of 
Delaware, and deposited with the trustee, would result in a tax to those 
parties at the capital gains rate.   Du Pont's counterproposal 
was filed on May 14, 1958. Under its plan du Pont would retain 
its General Motors shares but be required to pass on to its stockholders 
the right to vote those shares. Christiana and Delaware would, 
in turn, be required to pass on the voting rights to the General Motors 
shares allocable to them to their own stockholders. Du Pont would 
be enjoined from having as a director, officer, or employee anyone 
who was simultaneously an officer or employee of General Motors, and 
no director, officer, or employee of du Pont could serve as a director 
of General Motors without court approval. Du Pont would be denied 
the right to acquire any additional General Motors stock except 
through General Motors' distributions of stock or subscription rights 
to its stockholders.   On June 6, 1958, General Motors submitted 
its objections to the Government's proposal. It argued, <inter 
alia,> that a divestiture order would severely depress the market 
value of the stock of both General Motors and du Pont, with consequent 
serious loss and hardship to hundreds of thousands of innocent 
investors, among them thousands of small trusts and charitable institutions; 
that there would be a similar decline in the market values of 
other automotive and chemical stocks, with similar losses to the stockholders 
of those companies; that the tremendous volume of General 
Motors stock hanging over the market for ten years would hamper the efforts 
of General Motors and other automobile manufacturers to raise 
equity capital; and that all this would have a serious adverse effect 
on the entire stock market and on general business activity. General 
Motors comprehensively contended that the Government plan would 
not be "in the public interest" as required by the mandate of this 
Court.   The decrees proposed by the <amici curiae> were filed 
in August of 1958. These plans, like du Pont's contained provisions 
for passing the vote on du Pont's General Motors shares on 
to the ultimate stockholders of du Pont, Christiana, and Delaware, 
except that officers and directors of the three companies, their spouses, 
and other people living in their households, as well as other specified 
persons, were to be totally disenfranchised. Both plans also prohibited 
common directors, officers, or employees between du Pont, Christiana, 
and Delaware, on the one hand, and General Motors on the 
other. 
It is not a medieval mental quirk or an attitude "unnourished by sense" 
to believe that husbands and wives should not be subjected to such 
a risk, or that such a possibility should not be permitted to endanger 
the confidentiality of the marriage relationship. While it is easy 
enough to ridicule Hawkins' pronouncement in Pleas of the Crown 
from a metaphysical point of view, the concept of the "oneness" 
of a married couple may reflect an abiding belief that the communion between 
husband and wife is such that their actions are not always to be 
regarded by the criminal law as if there were no marriage. 
By 
making inroads in the name of law enforcement into the protection which 
Congress has afforded to the marriage relationship, the Court today 
continues in the path charted by the recent decision in <Wyatt> 
v& <United States>, 362 U&S& 525, where the Court held that, 
under the circumstances of that case, a wife could be compelled to 
testify against her husband over her objection. One need not waver in 
his belief in virile law enforcement to insist that there are other 
things in American life which are also of great importance, and to which 
even law enforcement must accommodate itself. One of these is the 
solidarity and the confidential relationship of marriage. The Court's 
opinion dogmatically asserts that the husband-wife conspiracy doctrine 
does not in fact protect this relationship, and that hence the doctrine 
"enthrone[s] an unreality into a rule of law". I am not 
easily persuaded that a rule accepted by so many people for so many centuries 
can be so lightly dismissed. But in any event, I submit that 
the power to depose belongs to Congress, not to this Court. I dissent. 
Petitioner, who claims to be a conscientious objector, was convicted 
of violating @ 12 (a) of the Universal Military Training and Service 
Act by refusing to be inducted into the armed forces. He claims 
that he was denied due process of law in violation of the Fifth Amendment, 
because (1) at a hearing before a hearing officer of the Department 
of Justice, he was not permitted to rebut statements attributed 
to him by the local board, and (2) at the trial, he was denied the right 
to have the hearing officer's report and the original report of 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation as to his claim. <Held>: 
On the record in this case, the administrative procedures prescribed 
by the Act were fully complied with; petitioner was not denied due 
process; and his conviction is sustained. Pp& 60-66. _(A)_ Petitioner 
was not denied due process in the administrative proceedings, 
because the statement in question was in his file, to which he had access, 
and he had opportunities to rebut it both before the hearing officer 
of the Department of Justice and before the appeal board. Pp& 
62-63. _(B)_ 
Petitioner was not entitled to have the hearing officer's 
notes and report, especially since he failed to show any particular 
need for them and he did have a copy of the Department of Justice's 
recommendation to the appeal board. Pp& 63-64. _(C)_ 
Petitioner was not entitled, either in the administrative hearing at 
the Department of Justice or at his trial, to inspect the original report 
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, since he was furnished 
a resume of it, did not challenge its accuracy, and showed no particular 
need for the original report. Pp& 64-66.   <Haydn C& 
Covington> argued the cause and filed a brief for petitioner.

<Daniel M& Friedman> argued the cause for the United States. 
On the brief were <Solicitor General Rankin, Assistant Attorney 
General Wilkey, Beatrice Rosenberg> and <J& F& Bishop>.

MR& JUSTICE CLARK delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a prosecution for refusal to be inducted into the 
armed services, in violation of the provisions of the Universal Military 
Training and Service Act, 62 Stat& 604, 622, 50 U&S&C& 
App& @ 462 (a). Petitioner, who claims to be a conscientious 
objector, contends that he was denied due process, both in the proceedings 
before a hearing officer of the Department of Justice and at 
trial. He says that he was not permitted to rebut before the hearing 
officer statements attributed to him by the local board, and, further, 
that he was denied at trial the right to have the Department of Justice 
hearing officer's report and the original report of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation as to his claim- all in violation of the 
Fifth Amendment. The trial judge decided that the administrative procedures 
of the Act were fully complied with and refused to require 
the production of such documents. Petitioner was found guilty and sentenced 
to 15 months' imprisonment. The Court of Appeals affirmed. 
269 F& 2d 613. We granted certiorari in view of the importance of 
the questions in the administration of the Act. 361 U& S& 899. 
We have concluded that petitioner's claims are controlled by the rationale 
of <gonzales> v& <United States>, 348 U&S& 407 
(1955), 
and <United States> v& <Nugent>, 346 U&S& 1 (1953), 
and therefore affirm the judgment.   Petitioner registered with 
Local Board No& 9, Boulder, Colorado, on March 17, 1952. His 
answers to the classification questionnaire reflected that he was a 
minister of Jehovah's Witnesses, employed at night by a sugar producer. 
He claimed /4,-~D classification as a minister of religion, 
devoting a minimum of 100 hours a month to preaching. On November 
13, 1952, he was classified in Class /1,-~A. On November 22, 
1952, he wrote the Board, protesting this classification. He again stated 
that he was "a regular minister"; that he was "devoting 
an average 
of 100 hours a month to actual preaching publicly", in addition to 
50 to 75 hours in other ministerial duties, and that he opposed war in 
any form. Thereafter he was classified /1,-~O. On April 1, 1953, 
after some six months of full-time "pioneering", petitioner discontinued 
devoting 100 hours a month to preaching, but failed to so 
notify his local board. In a periodic review, the local board on July 
30, 1953, reclassified him /1,-~A and upheld this classification 
after a personal appearance by petitioner, because of his willingness 
to kill in defense of his church and home. Upon administrative approval 
of the reclassification, he was ordered to report for induction on 
June 11, 1956, but failed to do so. He was not prosecuted, however, 
and his case was subsequently reopened, in the light of <Sicurella> 
v& <United States>, 348 U&S& 385 (1955). He was again 
reclassified /1,-~A by the local board. There followed a customary 
Department of Justice hearing, at which petitioner appeared. In 
his report to the Attorney General, the hearing officer suggested that 
the petitioner be exempt only from combatant training and service. 
On March 21, 1957, however, the Department recommended approval of 
the /1,-~A classification. Its ground for this recommendation was 
that, while petitioner claimed before the local board August 17, 1956 
(as evidenced by its memorandum in his file of that date), that he 
was devoting 100 hours per month to actual preaching, the headquarters 
of the Jehovah's Witnesses reported that he was no longer doing so 
and, on the contrary, had relinquished both his Pioneer and Bible 
Student Servant positions. It reported that he now devoted only some 
6-1/2 hours per month to public preaching and from 20 to 25 hours per 
month to church activities. His claim was therefore "so highly exaggerated", 
the Department concluded, that it "cast doubt upon his 
veracity and, consequently, upon his sincerity and good faith". The 
appeal board furnished petitioner a copy of the recommendation. In 
his answer thereto, he advised the Board that he had made no such statement 
in 1956, and asserted that his only claim to "pioneering" 
was in 1952. The appeal board, however, unanimously concurred in the 
Department's recommendation. Upon return of the file to the local 
board, petitioner was again ordered to report for induction and this 
prosecution followed his failure to do so.   Petitioner first contends 
that the Department denied him procedural due process by not giving 
him timely opportunity, before its final recommendation to the appeal 
board, to answer the statement of the local board as to his claim 
of devoting 100 hours to actual preaching. But the statement of the 
local board attributing this claim to petitioner was in his file. He 
admitted that he knew it was open to him at all times, and he could have 
rebutted it before the hearing officer. This he failed to do, asserting 
that he did not know it to be in his file. Apparently he never 
took the trouble to find out. Nevertheless he had ample opportunity 
to contest the statement before the appeal board. After the recommendation 
of the Department is forwarded to the appeal board, that is the 
appropriate place for a registrant to lodge his denial. This he did. 
We found in <Gonzales> v& <United States, supra>, that this 
was the controlling reason why copies of the recommendation should be 
furnished a registrant. We said there that it was necessary "that 
a registrant be given an opportunity to rebut [the Department's] 
recommendation when it comes to the Appeal Board, the agency with the 
ultimate responsibility for classification". 348 U&S&, at 412. 
We fail to see how such procedure resulted in any prejudice to petitioner's 
contention, which was considered by the appeal board and 
denied by it. As was said in <Gonzales>, "it is the Appeal Board 
which renders the selective service determination considered 'final' 
in the courts, not to be overturned unless there is no basis in fact. 
<Estep> v& <United States>, 327 U&S& 114". 348 
U& 
S&, at 412-413.   But there are other contentions which might 
be considered more difficult. At his trial, petitioner sought to secure 
through subpoena <duces tecum> the longhand notes of the Department's 
hearing officer, Evensen, as well as his report thereon. Petitioner 
also claimed at trial the right to inspect the original Federal 
Bureau of Investigation reports to the Department of Justice. 
He alleged no specific procedural errors or evidence withheld; nor 
did he elaborate just what favorable evidence the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation reports might disclose.   Section 6 (~j) of the 
Act, 
as we have held, does require the Department's recommendation to 
be placed in a registrant's file. <Gonzales> v& <United States, 
supra>. But there is nothing in the Act requiring the hearing 
officer's report to be likewise turned over to the registrant. While 
the regulations formerly required that the hearing officer's report 
be placed in the registrant's file, this requirement was eliminated 
in 1952. Moreover, the hearing officer's report is but intradepartmental, 
is directed to the Attorney General and, of course, is not 
the recommendation of the Department. It is not essentially different 
from a memorandum of an attorney in the Department of Justice, of 
which the Attorney General receives many, and to which he may give 
his approval or rejection. It is but part of the whole process within 
the Department that goes into the making of the final recommendation 
to the appeal board.   It is also significant that neither this 
report nor the hearing officer's notes were furnished to the appeal 
board. Hence the petitioner had full opportunity to traverse the only 
conclusions of the Department on file with the Board. Petitioner 
knew that the Department's recommendation was based not on the hearing 
officer's report but on the statement of the local board in his 
file. Having had every opportunity to rebut the finding of the local 
board before both the hearing officer and the appeal board, petitioner 
cannot now claim that he was denied due process because he did not succeed.

It appears to us that the same reasoning applies to the 
production of the hearing officer's report and notes at the trial. 
In addition, petitioner has failed to show any particular need for the 
report and notes. While there are now allegations of the withholding 
of "favorable evidence developed at the hearing" and a denial of 
a "full and fair hearing", no such claim was made by petitioner at 
any stage of the administrative process. Moreover, his testimony at 
trial never developed any such facts. In the light of these circumstances, 
as well as the fact that the issue at trial in this respect centered 
entirely on the Department's recommendation, which petitioner 
repudiated but which both the appeal board and the courts below found 
supported by the record, we find no relevancy in the hearing officer's 
report and notes.   Finally petitioner says that he was entitled 
to inspect the ~FBI report during the proceedings before the 
hearing officer as well as at the trial. He did receive a resume of 
it- the same that was furnished the appeal board- and he made no 
claim of its inaccuracy. Even now no such claim is asserted. He bases 
his present contention on the general right to explore, indicating that 
he hopes to find some discrepancy in the resume. But this is fully 
answered by <United States> v& <Nugent, supra>. There we held 
"that the statutory scheme for review, within the selective service 
system, **h entitles [conscientious objectors] to no guarantee 
that 
the ~FBI reports must be produced for their inspection". 346 
U&S&, at 5-6. Even if we were not bound by <Nugent>, petitioner 
here would not be entitled to the report. The recommendation of 
the Department- as well as the decision of the appeal board- was 
based entirely on the local board file, not on an ~FBI report. 

#FOREIGN POLICY IN ITS TOTAL CONTEXT#

With this enlarged role in 
mind, I should like to make a few suggestions: What we in the United 
States do or do not do will make a very large difference in what 
happens in the rest of the world. We in this Department must think about 
foreign policy in its total context. We cannot regard foreign policy 
as something left over after defense policy or trade policy or fiscal 
policy has been extracted. Foreign policy is the total involvement 
of the American people with peoples and governments abroad. That 
means that, if we are to achieve a new standard of leadership, we must 
think in terms of the total context of our situation. It is the concern 
of the Department of State that the American people are safe and 
secure- defense is not a monopoly concern of the Department of Defense. 
It is also the concern of the Department of State that our 
trading relationships with the rest of the world are vigorous, profitable, 
and active- this is not just a passing interest or a matter of 
concern only to the Department of Commerce. We can no longer rely on 
interdepartmental machinery "somewhere upstairs" to resolve differences 
between this and other departments. Assistant Secretaries of 
State will now carry an increased burden of active formulation and coordination 
of policies. Means must be found to enable us to keep in 
touch as regularly and as efficiently as possible with our colleagues 
in other departments concerned with foreign policy.   I think we 
need to concern ourselves also with the timeliness of action. Every 
policy officer cannot help but be a planning officer. Unless we keep 
our eyes on the horizon ahead, we shall fail to bring ourselves on target 
with the present. The movement of events is so fast, the pace so 
severe, that an attempt to peer into the future is essential if we are 
to think accurately about the present. If there is anything which we 
can do in the executive branch of the Government to speed up the processes 
by which we come to decisions on matters on which we must act 
promptly, that in itself would be a major contribution to the conduct 
of our affairs. Action taken today is often far more valuable than action 
taken several months later in response to a situation then out of 
control.   There will of course be times for delay and inaction. 
What I am suggesting is that when we delay, or when we fail to act, 
we do so intentionally and not through inadvertence or through bureaucratic 
or procedural difficulties.   I also hope that we can 
do something about reducing the infant mortality rate of ideas- an affliction 
of all bureaucracies. We want to stimulate ideas from the bottom 
to the top of the Department. We want to make sure that our junior 
colleagues realize that ideas are welcome, that initiative goes right 
down to the bottom and goes all the way to the top. I hope no one 
expects that only Presidential appointees are looked upon as sources 
of ideas. The responsibility for taking the initiative in generating 
ideas is that of every officer in the Department who has a policy function, 
regardless of rank.   Further, I would hope that we could 
pay attention to little things. While observing the operations of 
our Government in various parts of the world, I have felt that in many 
situations where our policies were good we have tended to ignore minor 
problems which spoiled our main effort. To cite only a few examples: 
The wrong man in the wrong position, perhaps even in a junior 
position 
abroad, can be a source of great harm to our policy; the attitudes 
of a U&N& delegate who experiences difficulty in finding adequate 
housing in New York City, or of a foreign diplomat in similar 
circumstances in our Capital, can be easily be directed against the United 
States and all that it stands for. Dozens of seemingly small 
matters go wrong all over the world. Sometimes those who know about them 
are too far down the line to be able to do anything about them. I 
would hope that we could create the recognition in the Department and 
overseas that those who come across little things going wrong have the 
responsibility for bringing these to the attention of those who can 
do something about them.   If the Department of State is to take 
primary responsibility for foreign policy in Washington, it follows 
that the ambassador is expected to take charge overseas. This does 
not mean in a purely bureaucratic sense but in an active, operational, 
interested, responsible fashion. He is expected to know about what 
is going on among the representatives of other agencies who are stationed 
in his country. He is expected to supervise, to encourage, to direct, 
to assist in any way he can. If any official operation abroad begins 
to go wrong, we shall look to the ambassador to find out why and 
to get suggestions for remedial action. 

#THE PROBLEMS OF A POLICY OFFICER# 

It occurred to me that you might be interested in some thoughts 
which I expressed privately in recent years, in the hope of clearing 
up a certain confusion in the public mind about what foreign policy 
is all about and what it means, and of developing a certain compassion 
for those who are carrying such responsibilities inside Government. 
I tried to do so by calling to their attention some of the problems 
that a senior departmental policy officer faces. This means practically 
everybody in this room. Whether it will strike home for you or not 
will be for you to determine.   The senior policy officer may 
be moved to think hard about a problem by any of an infinite variety of 
stimuli: an idea in his own head, the suggestions of a colleague, 
a question from the Secretary or the President, a proposal by another 
department, a communication from a foreign government or an American 
ambassador abroad, the filing of an item for the agenda of the United 
Nations or of any other of dozens of international bodies, a news 
item read at the breakfast table, a question to the President or the 
Secretary at a news conference, a speech by a Senator or Congressman, 
an article in a periodical, a resolution from a national organization, 
a request for assistance from some private American interests abroad, 
et cetera, ad infinitum. The policy officer lives with his antennae 
alerted for the questions which fall within his range of responsibility.

His first thought is about the question itself: Is 
there a question here for American foreign policy, and, if so, what is 
it? For he knows that the first and sometimes most difficult job 
is to know what the question is- that when it is accurately identified 
it sometimes answers itself, and that the way in which it is posed 
frequently shapes the answer.   Chewing it over with his colleagues 
and in his own mind, he reaches a tentative identification of the 
question- tentative because it may change as he explores it further 
and because, if no tolerable answer can be found, it may have to be changed 
into one which can be answered.   Meanwhile he has been thinking 
about the facts surrounding the problem, facts which he knows can 
never be complete, and the general background, much of which has already 
been lost to history. He is appreciative of the expert help available 
to him and draws these resources into play, taking care to examine 
at least some of the raw material which underlies their frequently 
policy-oriented conclusions. He knows that he must give the expert his 
place, but he knows that he must also keep him in it.   He is 
already beginning to box the compass of alternative lines of action, 
including doing nothing. He knows that he is thinking about action in 
relation to a future which can be perceived but dimly through a merciful 
fog. But he takes his bearings from the great guidelines of policy, 
well-established precedents, the commitments of the United States 
under international charters and treaties, basic statutes, and well-understood 
notions of the American people about how we are to conduct 
ourselves, in policy literature such as country papers and National Security 
Council papers accumulated in the Department.   He will 
not be surprised to find that general principles produce conflicting 
results in the factual situation with which he is confronted. He must 
think about which of these principles must take precedence. He will 
know that general policy papers written months before may not fit his 
problem because of crucial changes in circumstance. He is aware that 
every moderately important problem merges imperceptibly into every other 
problem. He must deal with the question of how to manage a part 
when it cannot be handled without relation to the whole- when the whole 
is too large to grasp.   He must think of others who have a 
stake in the question and in its answer. Who should be consulted among 
his colleagues in the Department or other departments and agencies 
of the Government? Which American ambassadors could provide helpful 
advice? Are private interests sufficiently involved to be consulted? 
What is the probable attitude of other governments, including 
those less directly involved? How and at what stage and in what sequence 
are other governments to be consulted?   If action is indicated, 
what kind of action is relevant to the problem? The selection 
of the wrong tools can mean waste, at best, and at worst an unwanted 
inflammation of the problem itself. Can the President or the Secretary 
act under existing authority, or will new legislation and new money 
be required? Should the action be unilateral or multilateral? 
Is the matter one for the United Nations or some other international 
body? For, if so, the path leads through a complex process of parliamentary 
diplomacy which adds still another dimension to the problem. 

#RESPECT FOR THE OPINIONS OF MANKIND#

What type of action can 
hope to win public support, first in this country and then abroad? 
For the policy officer will know that action can almost never be secret 
and that in general the effectiveness of policy will be conditioned 
by the readiness of the country to sustain it. He is interested in 
public opinion for two reasons: first, because it is important in itself, 
and, second, because he knows that the American public cares about 
a decent respect for the opinions of mankind. And, given probable 
public attitudes- about which reasonably good estimates can be made- 
what action is called for to insure necessary support?   May 
I add a caution on this particular point? We do not want policy 
officers below the level of Presidential appointees to concern themselves 
too much with problems of domestic politics in recommending foreign 
policy action. In the first place our business is foreign policy, 
and it is the business of the Presidential leadership and his appointees 
in the Department to consider the domestic political aspects of 
a problem. Mr& Truman emphasized this point by saying, "You fellows 
in the Department of State don't know much about domestic politics".

This is an important consideration. If we sit here 
reading editorials and looking at public-opinion polls and other reports 
that cross our desks, we should realize that this is raw, undigested 
opinion expressed in the absence of leadership. What the American 
people will do turns in large degree on their leadership. We cannot 
test public opinion until the President and the leaders of the country 
have gone to the public to explain what is required and have asked them 
for support for the necessary action. I doubt, for example, that, 
3 months before the leadership began to talk about what came to be the 
Marshall plan, any public-opinion expert would have said that the country 
would have accepted such proposals.   The problem in the 
policy officer's mind thus begins to take shape as a galaxy of utterly 
complicated factors- political, military, economic, financial, legal, 
legislative, procedural, administrative- to be sorted out and handled 
within a political system which moves by consent in relation to 
an external environment which cannot be under control.   And the 
policy officer has the hounds of time snapping at his heels.

While there should be no general age limit or restriction to one 
sex, there will be particular projects requiring special maturity and 
some open only to men or to women. The Peace Corps should not pay 
the expenses of a wife or family, unless the wife is also accepted for 
full-time Peace Corps work on the same project.   There should 
be no draft exemption because of Peace Corps service. In most cases 
service in the Corps will probably be considered a ground for temporary 
deferment.   Peace Corps volunteers obviously should not 
be paid what they might earn in comparable activities in the United 
States. Nor would it be possible in many cases for them to live in 
health or any effectiveness on what their counterparts abroad are paid. 
The guiding principle indeed should not be anything like compensation 
for individual services.   Rather the principle should be akin 
to that of the allowance. Peace Corps volunteers should be given 
just enough to provide a minimum decent standard of living. They should 
live in modest circumstances, avoiding all conspicuous consumption. 
Wherever possible they should live with their host country counterparts. 
Some special health requirements might have to be met. For example, 
it probably will be necessary for the Corps to have authority to 
pay medical expenses of volunteers. Perhaps existing Public Health 
Service, State Department and Armed Services medical facilities 
can be utilized.   For readjustment to the U&S&, volunteers 
should be given some separation allowance at the end of their overseas 
service, based on the length of time served. 

#7. IN WHAT PART OF 
THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD THE PEACE CORPS BE ESTABLISHED?#

The idea 
of a Peace Corps has captured the imagination of a great many people. 
Support for it cuts across party, regional, ethnic and other lines. 
The Peace Corps, therefore, offers an opportunity to add a new dimension 
to our approach to the world- an opportunity for the American 
people to think anew and start afresh in their participation in world 
development.   For this, the Peace Corps should be administered 
by a small, new, alive agency operating as one component in our whole 
overseas operation.   Pending the reorganization of our foreign 
aid structure and program, the Peace Corps should be established 
as an agency in the Department of State. When the aid operations are 
reorganized the Peace Corps should remain a semi-autonomous, functional 
unit. Meanwhile, the Peace Corps could be physically located 
in ~ICA's facilities and depend on the State Department and 
~ICA for administrative support and, when needed, program assistance.

In this way the Peace Corps can be launched with its own 
identity and spirit and yet receive the necessary assistance from those 
now responsible for United States foreign policy and our overseas 
operations. 

#8. HOW AND WHEN SHOULD THE PEACE CORPS BE LAUNCHED?# 

The Peace Corps can either begin in very low gear, with only preparatory 
work undertaken between now and when Congress finally appropriates 
special funds for it- or it can be launched now and in earnest 
by executive action, with sufficient funds and made available from 
existing Mutual Security appropriations to permit a number of substantial 
projects to start this summer.   The Peace Corps should 
be launched soon so that the opportunity to recruit the most qualified 
people from this year's graduating classes will not be lost. Nor 
should we lose the opportunity to use this summer for training on university 
campuses.   If launched in a careful but determined way within 
the next few weeks, the Peace Corps could have several hundred 
persons in training this summer for placement next Fall. Within a year 
or two several thousand might be in service. It can then grow steadily 
as it proves itself and as the need for it is demonstrated. 

#9. 
WHAT WOULD THE FIRST PROJECTS BE?#

In the first year there should 
probably be considerable emphasis on teaching projects. The need here 
is most clearly felt and our capacity to recruit and train qualified 
volunteers in a short period of time is greatest.   There would, 
however, be a variety of other skills- medical, agricultural, engineering- 
which would be called for in the first year through the private 
agency programs and through the provision of technician helpers 
to existing development projects.   The first year's projects 
should also be spread through several countries in Latin America, 
Africa and Asia. 

#10. HOW WILL THE PEACE CORPS BE RECEIVED ABROAD?# 

Although the need for outside trained manpower exists in every 
newly developing nation, the readiness to receive such manpower, or to 
receive it from the United States will vary from country to country. 
A certain skepticism about the coming of Americans is to be expected 
in many quarters. Unfriendly political groups will no doubt do everything 
in their power to promote active hostility. But there are indications 
that many developing nations will welcome Peace Corps volunteers, 
and that if the volunteers are well chosen, they will soon demonstrate 
their value and make many friends.   It is important, however, 
that the Peace Corps be advanced not as an arm of the Cold War 
but as a contribution to the world community. In presenting it to 
other governments and to the United Nations, we could propose that 
every nation consider the formation of its own peace corps and that the 
United Nations sponsor the idea and form an international coordinating 
committee. We should hope that peace corps projects will be truly 
international and that our citizens will find themselves working alongside 
citizens of the host country and also volunteers from other lands. 
In any case, our Peace Corps personnel should be offered as technician 
helpers in development projects of the U&N& and other international 
agencies.   The Peace Corps is not a diplomatic or 
propaganda venture but a genuine experiment in international partnership. 
Our aim must be to learn as much as we teach. The Peace Corps 
offers an opportunity to bring home to the United States the problems 
of the world as well as an opportunity to meet urgent host country 
needs for trained manpower. If presented in this spirit, the response 
and the results will be immeasurably better. 

#11. HOW WILL IT BE 
FINANCED?#

The already appropriated funds within the discretion of 
the President and Secretary of State under the Mutual Security 
Act are the only immediately available source of financing this summer's 
pilot programs of the Peace Corps. If it is decided to make a 
small shift which may be required from military aid or special assistance 
funds, in order to carry out the purposes of the Mutual Security 
Act through this new peaceful program, this will be a hopeful sign 
to the world. Congress should then be asked to give the Peace Corps 
a firm legislative foundation for the next fiscal year.   Specifically, 
Congress should consider authorizing the Peace Corps to receive 
contributions from American businesses, unions, civic organizations 
and the public at large. For this must be the project of the whole 
American people. An Advisory Council of outstanding public figures 
with experience in world affairs should be formed to give the program 
continuing guidance and to afford a focal point for public understanding.

Steps should also be taken to link the Food for Peace 
Program with the Peace Corps, so that foreign currencies accumulated 
by the sale of U&S& surplus food under P&L& 480 can be 
put to use to pay some of the host country expenses of Peace Corps 
personnel.   The extent to which participating bodies such as U& 
S& voluntary agencies, universities, international organizations, 
and the host country or institutions in the host country can and should 
share the cost of the Peace Corps programs must be fully explored. 

#12. IS IT WORTH THE COST AND THE RISKS?#

No matter how well 
conceived and efficiently run, there probably will be failures. These 
could be costly and have a serious effect both at home and abroad.

But as the popular response suggests, the potentiality of the 
Peace Corps is very great. It can contribute to the development of 
critical countries and regions. It can promote international cooperation 
and good will toward this country. It can also contribute to the 
education of America and to more intelligent American participation 
in the world.   With thousands of young Americans going to work 
in developing areas, millions of Americans will become more directly 
involved in the world than ever before.   With colleges and universities 
carrying a large part of the program, and with students looking 
toward Peace Corps service, there will be an impact on educational 
curriculum and student seriousness. The letters home, the talks later 
given by returning members of the Peace Corps, the influence on 
the lives of those who spend two or three years in hard work abroad- 
all this may combine to provide a substantial popular base for responsible 
American policies toward the world. And this is meeting the world's 
need, too, since what the world most needs from this country 
is better understanding of the world.   The Peace Corps thus can 
add a new dimension to America's world policy- one for which people 
here and abroad have long been waiting. As you said in your State 
of the Union message. "The problems **h are towering and unprecedented- 
and the response must be towering and unprecedented as well". 

#TO THE CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES:#

I recommend to the Congress 
the establishment of a permanent Peace Corps- <a pool of trained 
American men and women sent overseas by the U&S& Government 
or through private organizations and institutions to help foreign 
countries meet their urgent needs for skilled manpower>.   I 
have today signed an Executive Order establishing a Peace Corps on 
a temporary pilot basis.   The temporary Peace Corps will be 
a source of information and experience to aid us in formulating more 
effective plans for a permanent organization. In addition, by starting 
the Peace Corps now we will be able to begin training young men and 
women for overseas duty this summer with the objective of placing them 
in overseas positions by late fall. This temporary Peace Corps is 
being established under existing authority in the Mutual Security 
Act and will be located in the Department of State. Its initial expenses 
will be paid from appropriations currently available for our foreign 
aid program.   Throughout the world the people of the newly 
developing nations are struggling for economic and social progress which 
reflects their deepest desires. Our own freedom, and the future 
of freedom around the world, depend, in a very real sense, on their ability 
to build growing and independent nations where men can live in dignity, 
liberated from the bonds of hunger, ignorance and poverty.

One of the greatest obstacles to the achievement of this goal is 
the lack of trained men and women with the skill to teach the young and 
assist in the operation of development projects- men and women with 
the capacity to cope with the demands of swiftly evolving economics, 
and with the dedication to put that capacity to work in the villages, 
the mountains, the towns and the factories of dozens of struggling nations.

The vast task of economic development urgently requires 
skilled people to do the work of the society- to help teach in the 
schools, construct development projects, demonstrate modern methods of 
sanitation in the villages, and perform a hundred other tasks calling 
for training and advanced knowledge.   To meet this urgent need 
for skilled manpower we are proposing the establishment of a Peace 
Corps- an organization which will recruit and train American volunteers, 
sending them abroad to work with the people of other nations.

This organization will differ from existing assistance programs 
in that its members will supplement technical advisers by offering the 
specific skills needed by developing nations if they are to put technical 
advice to work. They will help provide the skilled manpower necessary 
to carry out the development projects planned by the host governments, 
acting at a working level and serving at great personal sacrifice. 
There is little doubt that the number of those who wish to serve 
will be far greater than our capacity to absorb them. 
_WILDLIFE HABITAT RESOURCES_ In 1960 one-quarter of the 92.5 million 
recreation visits to the National Forests and Grasslands were for 
the primary purpose of hunting and fishing. Hunter and fisherman visits 
since 1949 have increased 8 times faster than the nationwide sale 
of hunting and fishing licenses. This use is expected to increase to 
about 50 million visits by 1972. The long-range objective of habitat 
management is to make it fully productive so as to support fish and 
game populations to contribute to the need for public use and enjoyment.

The wildlife habitat management proposals for the 10-year period 
are: _1._ Revise and complete wildlife habitat management 
and improvement plans for all administrative units, assuring proper coordination 
between wildlife habitat management and other resources. _2._ 
Inventory and evaluate wildlife habitat resources in cooperation 
with other Federal agencies and with the States in which National 
Forests and Grasslands are located, as a basis for orderly development 
of wildlife habitat improvement and coordination programs, including 
(a) big-game, gamebird, and small-game habitat surveys and investigations 
on the 186 million acres of National Forests and Grasslands, 
(b) fishery habitat surveys and investigations on the 81,000 miles 
of National Forest fishing streams and nearly 3 million acres of lakes 
and impoundments, and (c) participation in planning, inspection, and 
control phases of all habitat improvement, land- and water-use projects 
conducted on National Forest lands by States, other Federal agencies, 
and private groups to assure that projects will benefit wildlife 
and be in harmony with other resource values. _3._ Improve food 
and cover on 1.5 million acres of key wildlife areas. _4._ Develop 
wildlife openings, food patches, and game ways in dense vegetation 
by clearing or controlled burning on 400,000 acres. _5._ Improve 
7,000 miles of fishing streams and 56,000 acres of lakes by stabilizing 
banks, planting streamside cover, and constructing channel improvements. 

#PROTECTION#

The total adverse impact of disease, insects, 
fire, weather, destructive animals, and other forces on the uses and 
values of forest resources is not generally recognized. They kill and 
destroy, retard or prevent reproduction and growth, impair and damage 
values, and disrupt uses.   The loss in growth of sawtimber because 
of damage by destructive agencies in the United States in 1952 
was estimated to be about 44 billion board feet. If it were not for the 
effect of destructive agencies, sawtimber growth would have been nearly 
twice as great as the 47 billion board feet in 1952. About 45 percent 
of the loss in growth was attributable to disease, 20 percent to 
insects, 17 percent to fire, and 18 percent to weather, animals, and 
various other causes.   These destructive forces also have a seriously 
adverse effect upon the watersheds and their life-supporting waterflows, 
and upon the other renewable forest resources.   The long-range 
objective is to hold the damage from destructive agencies below 
the level which would seriously interfere with intensive management 
of the National Forest System under principles of multiple use and 
high-level sustained yield of products and services. This can be accomplished 
substantially by a continued trend toward better facilities 
and techniques for fire control and more resources to cope with critical 
fire periods, and a more intensive application of a program of prevention, 
detection, and control of insect and disease infestations. In 
addition to direct protection measures, more intensive management of 
timber resources will assist in reduction of losses from insects and 
disease. _PROTECTION FROM INSECTS AND DISEASE_ In the 10-year period, 
it is proposed that insect and disease control on the National Forest 
System be stepped up to a level of prevention, detection, and 
control of insect and disease infestations that will substantially reduce 
the occurrence of large infestations toward the end of the initial 
period. This will require about a 40 percent increase over the present 
level of protection. The work will consist of: _1._ Intensification 
of present activities through (a) quicker, more extensive, and 
more thorough surveys to detect incipient outbreaks; (b) more reliable 
evaluation of the potential of initial outbreaks to cause widespread 
damage; (c) quicker and more effective control action in the initial 
stages to prevent a large-scale epidemic. The initial suppression 
activities would cover about twice the acreage currently being treated. 
_2._ Continuation of present blister rust control work plus extension 
of control to 250,000 acres not now protected but which should 
be managed for white pine production. The objective is to achieve sufficient 
effectiveness of control on all of the area now under treatment 
plus the additional acres so that after the initial period only maintenance 
control will be needed. _3._ Initiating a program to control 
dwarfmistletoe on several hundred thousand acres of selected better 
stands of young softwood sawtimber on better growing sites. _4._ 
Coordination of pest control objectives with timber management activities 
to reduce losses. _PROTECTION FROM FIRE_ It is proposed 
that in 
10 years all commercial timberlands, all critical watersheds, and 
other lands in the National Forest System developed or proposed for 
intensive use will be given protection from fire adequate to meet the 
fire situation in the worst years and under serious peak loads. This 
will include 125 million acres compared with 23 million acres now receiving 
such protection. An additional 15 million acres will be given 
a lesser degree of protection but adequate to meet the average fire situation.

Meeting these levels of protection from fire calls for: 
_1._ Expansion, modernization, and development of fire control 
to a proficiency and strength of force which will prevent as many 
fires as possible and suppress fires before they spread beyond permitted 
standards. This is to be accomplished by nearly doubling the present 
level of preventive effort, detection, skilled fire-fighting crews, 
and equipment use. This will include a stepped-up program of training 
and development of personnel. _2._ Adoption and use of new and 
modern techniques being developed for prevention, for suppression of fires 
while small, and for stopping large fires while running and burning 
intensely. _3._ Reduction of hazardous fuel conditions to minimize 
the chances of large fires developing and spreading to high-value 
areas. This work will cover the most serious one-fourth of all land 
needing such treatment, and will consist of burning 250,000 acres of highly 
hazardous debris concentration, felling snags on 350,000 acres of 
high lightning-occurrence areas, prescribed burning on 3.5 million acres, 
removing roadside fuel on 39,000 acres, and clearing and maintaining 
11,000 miles of firebreaks. _PROTECTION FROM OTHER DAMAGE_ Rodent 
control work for the 10-year period will be aimed at control of 
the most serious infestations of harmful rodents, such as porcupines 
and mice, on high-value areas of forage and commercial timberlands. These 
areas comprise about half of the total area of rodent infestation 
on the National Forests. Approximately 1.8 million acres of rangelands 
and 9.4 million acres of timberlands would be treated in this period. 
Control would be limited to those rodents for which economical means 
of control are known. 

#ROADS AND TRAILS#

The transportation 
system which serves the National Forests is a complex of highways and 
access roads and trails under various ownerships and jurisdictions. 
This system is divided into a forest highway system, administered by 
the Secretary of Commerce, and a forest development road and trail system, 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture. Both of these 
systems are essential for the production, development, and use of the 
National 
Forests.   In the forest highway system, there are now 
24,400 miles of public roads. These are mostly through highways that 
carry traffic going from one destination to another. Because administration 
of the forest highway system is a responsibility of the Secretary 
of Commerce with maintenance provided by the States and counties, 
this Development Program for the National Forests does not include 
estimates of the funds needed to maintain the forest highway system 
nor to construct the additions to its that are needed. It is estimated 
that about 70,000 miles of forest highways will eventually be needed 
to fully serve the National Forests.   In the forest development 
road and trail system, there are now 162,400 miles of roads and 
106,500 miles of supplemental foot and horse trails. These roads are 
largely of less than highway standards, and usually carry traffic which 
is related to use of the National Forests. Construction and maintenance 
of this system is a responsibility of the Secretary of Agriculture. 
It is estimated that about 542,250 miles of forest development 
roads, and 80,000 miles of trails, constitute the system that will eventually 
be needed to obtain the maximum practicable yield and use of 
the wood, water, forage, and wildlife and recreation resources of the 
National Forests on a continuing basis.   The ultimate trail system 
will be of value primarily for recreation and wildlife utilization 
and fire protection. It will be carefully planned to maintain optimum 
service to these important resources and watersheds.   The presence 
or lack of access by road or trail has a direct and controlling 
influence on all phases of forest management and utilization such as: 
_(A)_ the protection of forage, timber, and wildlife resources 
from fire, insects, and disease; _(B)_ the balanced use of recreation, 
hunting, and fishing areas; _(C)_ the volume of timber that 
can be marketed, especially for small sales and the support of dependent 
communities and small business enterprises; _(D)_ the level 
of salvage cutting in dead and dying timber stands and the opportunity 
to promptly salvage losses resulting from fire, windstorm, insects, 
and disease; _(E)_ the protection of watershed lands from erosion 
and overgrazing by animals.   The existence of road systems 
permits an intensity of management and use for all National Forest purposes 
that is not otherwise possible. Furthermore, roads that give 
access to National Forest timber are investments which pay their own 
way over a period of years. Use of these roads by the public results 
in substantial benefits to the localities the roads serve.   The 
long-range objective of this Department is to provide and maintain 
a system of forest development roads and trails which will adequately 
service the National Forest System at the levels needed to meet expected 
needs and optimum production of products and services. For the 
year 2000 this means servicing (a) the protection requirements of a watershed 
producing at least 200 million acre-feet of water each year, (b) 
recreation and wildlife resources used each year by 635 million visitors, 
(c) a timber resource supporting an annual cut of 21 billion board 
feet, and (d) 60 million acres of rangelands.   Service at these 
levels of production and utilization will eventually require the 
construction of about 379,900 miles of new roads and 6,000 miles of new 
trails, along with the reconstruction to higher standards of about 105,000 
miles of roads and 10,500 miles of trails. About 26,500 miles 
of existing trails will be replaced in service by the construction of 
new roads. About 80 percent of these long-range requirements should be 
met by the year 2000.   Program proposals for forest development 
roads and trails for the 10-year period 1963-1972 are as follows: 
_1._ Complete the construction and reconstruction of about 79,400 
miles of multiple-purpose roads and 8,000 miles of trails. This constitutes 
about 17 percent of the long-range requirements for these facilities.

Approximately 40 percent of the value of the work on 
roads for access to timber which are planned for this period will be constructed 
by purchasers of National Forest timber, but paid for by 
the Government through adjustment of stumpage prices. _2._ Provide 
maintenance to full standards on the 268,900 miles of existing access 
roads and trails and on the new roads and trails constructed during 
the period. 

#LAND ADJUSTMENT, LAND PURCHASE, LAND USE#

Within the 
units in the National Forest System the pattern of land ownership 
is quite irregular. In some units, National Forest ownership is well 
blocked together. In many others, the previous patenting of land 
under the public land laws, or the way in which land was available for 
purchase, resulted in a scattered pattern of ownership.   Within 
exterior boundaries of National Forests and National Grasslands, 
there are about 40,000,000 acres in non-Federal ownership. One consequence 
is the occurrence of occasional conflicts because private owners 
of some inholdings object to public programs of use on neighboring 
National Forest or other Federal land, or because such ownerships are 
developed for uses that are not compatible with use for the public 
of neighboring National Forest land. Some privately held inholdings 
are a source of direct damage to these Federal lands. And some, which 
are suitable for tree growing and for other National Forest purposes, 
are unmanaged or in need of expensive rehabilitation, and are contributing 
nothing to the economy; there are no reasonable prospects 
that these conditions will be corrected or changed. Lands in this last 
category are situated largely in the mountainous portions of the Eastern 
States.   The long-range objective is to bring about consolidation 
of ownership through use of land exchange authority and through 
purchase on a moderate scale of inholdings which comprise key tracts 
for recognized National Forest programs such as recreation development, 
or which are a source of damage to lands in National Forests 
and National Grasslands.

Strategy and tactics of the U&S& military forces are now 
undergoing one of the greatest transitions in history. The change of 
emphasis from conventional-type to missile-type warfare must be made 
with care, mindful that the one type of warfare cannot be safely neglected 
in favor of the other. Our military forces must be capable of 
contending successfully with any contingency which may be forced upon 
us, from limited emergencies to all-out nuclear general war. 

#FORCES 
AND MILITARY PERSONNEL STRENGTH.#- This budget will provide in 
the fiscal year 1961 for the continued support of our forces at approximately 
the present level- a year-end strength of 2,489,000 men and 
women in the active forces. The forces to be supported include an Army 
of 14 divisions and 870,000 men; a Navy of 817 active ships and 
619,000 men; a Marine Corps of 3 divisions and 3 air wings with 175,000 
men; and an Air Force of 91 combat wings and 825,000 men.

If the reserve components are to serve effectively in time of war, 
their basic organization and objectives must conform to the changing 
character and missions of the active forces. Quality and combat readiness 
must take precedence over mere numbers. Under modern conditions, 
this is especially true of the ready reserve. I have requested the 
Secretary of Defense to reexamine the roles and missions of the reserve 
components in relation to those of the active forces and in the light 
of the changing requirements of modern warfare.   Last year 
the Congress discontinued its previously imposed minimum personnel strength 
limitations on the Army Reserve. Similar restrictions on the 
strength of the Army National Guard contained in the 1960 Department 
of Defense Appropriation Act should likewise be dropped. I strongly 
recommend to the Congress the avoidance of mandatory floors on 
the size of the reserve components so that we may have the flexibility 
to make adjustments in keeping with military necessity.   I again 
proposed a reduction in the Army National Guard and Army Reserve- 
from their present strengths of 400,000 and 300,000, respectively, 
to 360,000 and 270,000 by the end of the fiscal year 1961. These 
strengths are considered adequate to meet the essential roles and missions 
of the reserves in support of our national security objectives. 

#MILITARY PERSONNEL COSTS.#- About 30% of the expenditures for 
the Department of Defense in 1961 are for military personnel costs, 
including pay for active, reserve, and retired military personnel. These 
expenditures are estimated to be $12.1 billion, an increase of $187 
million over 1960, reflecting additional longevity pay of career personnel, 
more dependents, an increased number of men drawing proficiency 
pay, and social security tax increases (effective for the full year 
in 1961 compared with only 6 months in 1960). Retired pay costs are 
increased by $94 million in 1961 over 1960, partly because of a substantial 
increase in the number of retired personnel. These increased costs 
are partially offset by a decrease of $56 million in expenditures 
for the reserve forces, largely because of the planned reduction in strength 
of the Army Reserve components during 1961.   Traditionally, 
rates of pay for retired military personnel have been proportionate 
to current rates of pay for active personnel. The 1958 military 
pay act departed from this established formula by providing for a 6% 
increase rather than a proportionate increase for everyone retired prior 
to its effective date of June 1, 1958. I endorse pending legislation 
that will restore the traditional relationship between retired and 
active duty pay rates. 

#OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.#- Expenditures 
for operating and maintaining the stations and equipment of the Armed 
Forces are estimated to be $10.3 billion in 1961, which is $184 
million more than in 1960. The increase stems largely from the growing 
complexity of and higher degree of maintenance required for newer weapons 
and equipment.   A substantial increase is estimated in the 
cost of operating additional communications systems in the air defense 
program, as well as in all programs where speed and security of communications 
are essential. Also, the program for fleet modernization 
will be stepped up in 1961 causing an increase in expenditures. Further 
increases arise from the civilian employee health program enacted 
by the Congress last year.   Other factors increasing operating 
costs include the higher unit cost of each flying hour, up 11% in two 
years, and of each steaming hour, up 15%. In total, these increases 
in operating costs outweigh the savings that result from declining 
programs and from economy measures, such as reduced numbers of units 
and installations, smaller inventories of major equipment, and improvements 
in the supply and distribution systems of the Armed Forces.

In the budget message for 1959, and again for 1960, I recommended 
immediate repeal of section 601 of the Act of September 28, 1951 
(65 Stat& 365). This section prevents the military departments and 
the Office of Civil and Defense Mobilization from carrying out certain 
transactions involving real property unless they come into agreement 
with the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives. As I have stated previously, the Attorney 
General has advised me that this section violates fundamental constitutional 
principles. Accordingly, if it is not repealed by the Congress 
at its present session, I shall have no alternative thereafter but 
to direct the Secretary of Defense to disregard the section unless 
a court of competent jurisdiction determines otherwise.   Basic 
long-line communications in Alaska are now provided through Federal 
facilities operated by the Army, Air Force, and Federal Aviation 
Agency. The growing communications needs of this new State can best 
be met, as they have in other States, through the operation and development 
of such facilities by private enterprise. Legislation has already 
been proposed to authorize the sale of these Government-owned 
systems in Alaska, and its early enactment is desirable. 

#PROCUREMENT, 
RESEARCH, AND CONSTRUCTION.#- Approximately 45% of the expenditures 
for the Department of Defense are for procurement, research, 
development, and construction programs. In 1961, these expenditures 
are estimated at $18.9 billion, compared to $19.3 billion in 1960. The 
decreases, which are largely in construction and in aircraft procurement, 
are offset in part by increases for research and development and 
for procurement of other military equipment such as tanks, vehicles, 
guns, and electronic devices. Expenditures for shipbuilding are estimated 
at about the same level as in 1960.   New obligational authority 
for 1961 recommended in this budget for aircraft procurement (excluding 
amounts for related research and construction) totals $4,753 
million, which is $1,390 million below that enacted for 1960. On the 
other hand, the new authority of $3,825 million proposed for missile 
procurement (excluding research and construction) in 1961 is $581 million 
higher than for 1960. These contrasting trends in procurement reflect 
the anticipated changes in the composition and missions of our Armed 
Forces in the years ahead.   The Department of Defense appropriation 
acts for the past several years have contained a rider which 
limits competitive bidding by firms in other countries on certain 
military supply items. As I have repeatedly stated, this provision is 
much more restrictive than the general law, popularly known as the Buy 
American Act. I urge once again that the Congress not reenact 
this rider.   The task of providing a reasonable level of military 
strength, without endangering other vital aspects of our security, 
is greatly complicated by the swift pace of scientific progress. The 
last few years have witnessed what have been perhaps the most rapid advances 
in military technology in history. Some weapons systems have 
become obsolescent while still in production, and some while still under 
development.   Furthermore, unexpectedly rapid progress or a 
technological break-through on any one weapon system, in itself, often 
diminishes the relative importance of other competitive systems. This 
has necessitated a continuous review and reevaluation of the defense 
program in order to redirect resources to the newer and more important 
weapons systems and to eliminate or reduce effort on weapons systems 
which have been overtaken by events. Thus, in the last few years, a 
number of programs which looked very promising at the time their development 
was commenced have since been completely eliminated. For example, 
the importance of the Regulus /2,, a very promising aerodynamic 
ship-to-surface missile designed to be launched by surfaced submarines, 
was greatly diminished by the successful acceleration of the much more 
advanced Polaris ballistic missile launched by submerged submarines.

Another example is the recent cancellation of the ~F-108, 
a long-range interceptor with a speed three times as great as the speed 
of sound, which was designed for use against manned bombers in the 
period of the mid-1960's. The substantial progress being made in ballistic 
missile technology is rapidly shifting the main threat from manned 
bombers to missiles. Considering the high cost of the ~F-108 
system- over $4 billion for the force that had been planned- and 
the time period in which it would become operational, it was decided to 
stop further work on the project. Meanwhile, other air defense forces 
are being made effective, as described later in this message.

The size and scope of other important programs have been reduced from 
earlier plans. Notable in this category are the Jupiter and Thor 
intermediate range ballistic missiles, which have been successfully developed, 
produced, and deployed, but the relative importance of which 
has diminished with the increasing availability of the Atlas intercontinental 
ballistic missile.   The impact of technological factors 
is also illustrated by the history of the high-energy fuel program. 
This project was started at a time when there was a critical need for 
a high-energy fuel to provide an extra margin of range for high performance 
aircraft, particularly our heavy bombers. Continuing technical 
problems involved in the use of this fuel, coupled with significant 
improvements in aircraft range through other means, have now raised serious 
questions about the value of the high-energy fuel program. As 
a result, the scope of this project has been sharply curtailed. 
These examples underscore the importance of even more searching evaluations 
of new major development programs and even more penetrating and 
far-ranging analyses of the potentialities of future technology. The 
cost of developing a major weapon system is now so enormous that the 
greatest care must be exercised in selecting new systems for development, 
in determining the most satisfactory rate of development, and in 
deciding the proper time at which either to place a system into production 
or to abandon it. 

#STRATEGIC FORCES.#- The deterrent power 
of our Armed Forces comes from both their nuclear retaliatory capability 
and their capability to conduct other essential operations in any 
form of war. The first capability is represented by a combination 
of manned bombers, carrier-based aircraft, and intercontinental and intermediate 
range missiles. The second capability is represented by our 
deployed ground, naval, and air forces in essential forward areas, together 
with ready reserves capable of effecting early emergency reinforcement.

The Strategic Air Command is the principal element 
of our long-range nuclear capability. One of the important and difficult 
decisions which had to be made in this budget concerned the role 
of the ~B-70, a long-range supersonic bomber. This aircraft, which 
was planned for initial operational use about 1965, would be complementary 
to but likewise competitive with the four strategic ballistic missile 
systems, all of which are scheduled to become available earlier. 
The first Atlas ~ICBM's are now operational, the first two 
Polaris submarines are expected to be operational this calendar year, 
and the first Titan ~ICBM's next year. The Minuteman solid-fueled 
~ICBM is planned to be operational about mid-1963. By 
1965, several or all of these systems will have been fully tested and 
their reliability established.   Thus, the need for the ~B-70 
as a strategic weapon system is doubtful. However, I am recommending 
that development work on the ~B-70 air-frame and engines be continued. 
It is expected that in 1963 two prototype aircraft will be available 
for flight testing. By that time we should be in a much better 
position to determine the value of that aircraft as a weapon system.

I am recommending additional acquisitions of the improved version 
of the ~B-52 (the ~B-52~H with the new turbofan engine) 
and procurement of the ~B-58 supersonic medium bomber, together with 
the supporting refueling tankers in each case. These additional modern 
bombers will replace some of the older ~B-47 medium bombers; 
one ~B-52 can do the work of several ~B-47's which it will replace. 
Funds are also included in this budget to continue the equipping 
of the ~B-52 wings with the Hound Dog air-to-surface missile.

In the coming fiscal year additional quantities of Atlas, Titan, 
and Polaris missiles also will be procured. 
Purchase authorizations will include provisions relating to the sale 
and delivery of commodities, including the classes, types and/or varieties 
of food grain, the time and circumstances of deposit of the rupees 
accruing 
from such sale, and other relevant matters. _3._ The United States 
recognizes the desire of India to accumulate, as quickly as possible, 
a substantial part of the one million ton reserve stock of rice 
provided for in this Agreement to assist in stabilizing the internal 
markets for this commodity in India. Under this Agreement the first 
annual review of rice availabilities will be made in August 1960. 
At that time consideration will be given to whether in the light of 
the United States supplies of rice available for Title /1, disposal, 
India's production, consumption and stocks of food grains, other 
imports from the United States and countries friendly to the United 
States, India's storage capacity, and other related factors, any 
increase would be possible in the portion of the total rice programmed 
which is currently planned for procurement during the first year. _4._ 
The two Governments agree that the issuance of purchase authorizations 
for wheat and rice providing for purchase after June 30, 1961, 
shall be dependent upon the determination by the United States 
Government that these commodities are in surplus supply and available 
under Title /1, of the Act at that time. The United States Government 
shall have the right to terminate the financing of further sales 
under this Agreement of any commodity if it determines at any time 
after June 30, 1961, that such action is necessitated by the existence 
of an international emergency. 

#ARTICLE /2, USES OF RUPEES# 

_1._ The two Governments agree that the rupees accruing to the Government 
of the United States of America as a consequence of sales 
made pursuant to this Agreement will be used by the Government of 
the United States of America, in such manner and order of priority 
as the Government of the United States of America shall determine, 
for the following purposes in the amounts shown: _(A)_ For United 
States expenditures under subsections (~a), (~b), (~d), (~e), 
(~f), (~h) through (~r) of Section 104 of the Act or under 
any of such subsections, the rupee equivalent of $200 million. _(B)_ 
For grant to the Government of India under subsection (~e) 
of Section 104 of the Act, the rupee equivalent of not more than $538 
million for financing such projects to promote balanced economic development 
as may from time to time be mutually agreed. _(C)_ For loan 
to the Government of India under subsection (~g) of Section 104 
of the Act, the rupee equivalent of not more than $538 million for 
financing such projects to promote balanced economic development as may 
be mutually agreed. The terms and conditions of the loan and other 
provisions will be set forth in a separate agreement by the two Governments.

In the event that agreement is not reached on the use 
of the rupees for grant or loan purposes within six years from the date 
of this Agreement, the Government of the United States of America 
may use the local currency for any purposes authorized by Section 
104 of the Act. _2._ In the event the total of rupees accruing 
to the Government of the United States of America as a consequence 
of sales made pursuant to this Agreement is different from the rupee 
equivalent of $1,276 million, the amounts available for the purposes 
specified in paragraph 1, Article /2, will be adjusted proportionately. 

#ARTICLE /3, DEPOSIT OF RUPEES#

The deposit of rupees to 
the account of the Government of the United States of America in payment 
for the commodities and for ocean transportation costs financed 
by the Government of the United States of America (except excess 
costs resulting from the requirement that United States flag vessels 
be used) shall be made at the rate of exchange for United States dollars 
generally applicable to import transactions (excluding imports granted 
a preferential rate) in effect on the dates of dollar disbursement 
by United States banks, or by the Government of the United States 
of America, as provided in the purchase authorizations. 

#ARTICLE 
/4, GENERAL UNDERTAKINGS#

_1._ The Government of India agrees 
that it will take all possible measures to prevent the resale or 
transshipment to other countries or the use for other than domestic purposes 
(except where such resale, transshipment or use is specifically 
approved by the Government of the United States of America), of 
the surplus agricultural commodities purchased pursuant to the provisions 
of this Agreement, and to assure that the purchase of such commodities 
does not result in increased availability of these or like commodities 
for export from India. _2._ The two Governments agree that 
they will take reasonable precautions to assure that all sales or purchases 
of surplus agricultural commodities, pursuant to the Agreement 
will not displace usual marketings of the United States of America 
in these commodities, or unduly disrupt world prices of agricultural 
commodities or normal patterns of commercial trade with friendly countries. 
_3._ In carrying out this Agreement, the two Governments 
will seek to assure, to the extent practicable, conditions of commerce 
permitting private traders to function effectively and will use their 
best endeavors to develop and extend continuous market demand for agricultural 
commodities. _4._ The Government of India agrees to 
furnish, upon request of the United States of America, information 
on the progress of the program, particularly with respect to the arrival 
and condition of commodities and the provisions for the maintenance 
of usual marketings, and information relating to exports of the same 
or like commodities. 

#ARTICLE /5, CONSULTATION#

The two Governments 
will, upon the request of either of them, consult regarding any 
matter relating to the application of this Agreement or to the operation 
of arrangements carried out pursuant to this Agreement. 

#ARTICLE 
/6, ENTRY INTO FORCE#

The agreement shall enter into force upon 
signature.   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the respective representatives, 
duly authorized for the purpose, have signed the present Agreement.

DONE at Washington in duplicate this fourth day of 
May 1960.   FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:

DWIGHT D& EISENHOWER   FOR THE GOVERNMENT 
OF INDIA:   S& K& PATIL 
EXCELLENCY:   I have the honor to refer to the Agricultural 
Commodities Agreement signed today between the Government of the 
United States of America and the Government of India (hereinafter 
referred to as the Agreement) and, with regard to the rupees accruing 
to uses indicated under Article /2, of the Agreement, to state 
that the understanding of the Government of the United States of 
America is as follows: _1._ With respect to Article /2,, Paragraph 
1 (~a) of the Agreement: _(/1,)_ The Government 
of India will provide facilities for the conversions of the rupee equivalent 
of $4 million (up to a maximum of $1 million per year) accruing 
under the subject agreement for agricultural market development purposes 
into currencies other than United States dollars on request of 
the Government of the United States of America. This facility is 
needed for the purpose of securing funds to finance agricultural market 
development activities of the Government of the United States in 
other countries.   The Government of the United States of America 
may utilize rupees in India to pay for goods and services, including 
international transportation needed in connection with market development 
and other agricultural projects and activities in India and 
other countries. _(/2,)_ The rupee equivalent of $63.8 million, 
but not more than 5 percent of the currencies received under the Agreement 
will be used for loans to be made by the Export-Import Bank 
of Washington under Section 104 (~e) of the Agricultural Trade 
Development and Assistance Act, as amended (hereinafter referred to 
as the Act), and for administrative expenses of the Export-Import 
Bank of Washington in India incident thereto. It is understood that: 
_(A)_ Such loans under Section 104 (~e) of the Act will 
be made to United States business firms and branches, subsidiaries, 
or affiliates of such firms in India for business development and trade 
expansion in India and to United States firms and to Indian firms 
for the establishment of facilities for aiding in the utilization, 
distribution, or otherwise increasing the consumption of and markets 
for United States agricultural products. In the event the rupees set 
aside for loans under Section 104 (~e) of the Act are not advanced 
within six years from the date of this Agreement because the Export-Import 
Bank of Washington has not approved loans or because proposed 
loans have not been mutually agreeable to the Export-Import Bank 
of Washington and the Department of Economic Affairs of the Government 
of India, the Government of the United States of America 
may use the rupees for any purpose authorized by Section 104 of the 
Act. _(B)_ Loans will be mutually agreeable to the Export-Import 
Bank of Washington and the Government of India acting through 
the Department of Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance. The 
Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, or his designate, will 
act for the Government of India, and the President of the Export-Import 
Bank of Washington, or his designate, will act for the Export-Import 
Bank of Washington. _(C)_ Upon receipt of an application 
which the Export-Import Bank is prepared to consider, the Export-Import 
Bank will inform the Department of Economic Affairs 
of the identity of the applicant, the nature of the proposed business, 
the amount of the proposed loan, and the general purposes for which the 
loan proceeds would be expended. _(D)_ When the Export-Import 
Bank is prepared to act favorably upon an application, it will so notify 
the Department of Economic Affairs and will indicate the interest 
rate and the repayment period which would be used under the proposed 
loan. The interest rate will be similar to those prevailing in India 
on comparable loans and the maturities will be consistent with the 
purposes of the financing. _(E)_ Within sixty days after the receipt 
of notice that the Export-Import Bank is prepared to act favorably 
upon an application the Department of Economic Affairs will indicate 
to the Export-Import Bank whether or not the Department of 
Economic Affairs has any objection to the proposed loan. Unless within 
the sixty-day period the Export-Import Bank has received such 
a communication from the Department of Economic Affairs it shall be 
understood that the Department of Economic Affairs has no objection 
to the proposed loan. When the Export-Import Bank approves or declines 
the proposed loan, it will notify the Department of Economic 
Affairs. _2._ With respect to Article /2,, paragraphs 1 (~b) 
and 1 (~c): 
Uses of Section 104 (~e) and Section 104(~g) rupees: The 
Government of India will use the amount of rupees granted or loaned 
to it by the United States pursuant to paragraphs 1(~b) and 1(~c) 
for projects to promote economic development with emphasis upon 
the agricultural sector including food reserve storage structures and 
facilities as may from time to time be agreed upon by the authorized 
representatives of the United States and the authorized representatives 
of the Government of India, in the following sectors: _A._ 
Agriculture. _B._ Industry, including the production of fertilizer, 
irrigation and power, transport and communications, and credit institutions. 
_C._ Public health, education, and rehabilitation. _D._ 
Other economic development projects consistent with the purposes 
of Sections 104 (~e) and 104 (~g) of the Act. The Government 
of India further agrees in cooperation with the Government of the 
United States, to coordinate the use of grant and loan funds provided 
for in paragraphs 1 
(~b) and 1 (~c) of Article /2, with such direct 
dollar assistance as may be made available by the Government of 
the United States of America, so that both sources of financing may 
be channeled to specific and clearly identifiable economic development 
programs and projects. _3._ It is agreed that any goods delivered 
or services rendered after the date of this agreement for projects 
within categories ~A, ~B, and ~C under paragraph 2 above which 
may later be approved by the United States will be eligible for financing 
from currency granted or loaned to the Government of India. 
_4._ With regard to the rupees accruing to uses indicated under 
Article /2, of the Agreement, the understanding of the Government 
of the United States of America, with respect to both paragraphs 1 
(~b) and 1 (~c) of Article /2, is as follows: _(/1,)_ 
Local currency will be advanced or reimbursed to the Government of India 
for financing agreed projects under paragraphs 1 (~b) and 1 (~c) 
of Article /2, of the Agreement upon the presentation of such 
documentation as the United States may specify. _(/2,)_ The 
Government of India shall maintain or cause to be maintained books and 
records adequate to identify the goods and services financed for agreed 
projects pursuant to paragraphs 1 (~b) and 1 (~c) of Article 
/2, of the Agreement, to disclose the use thereof in the projects 
and to record the progress of the projects (including the cost thereof). 
The books and records with respect to each project shall be maintained 
for the duration of the project, or until the expiration of three 
years after final disbursement for the project has been made by the United 
States, whichever is later. The two Governments shall have the 
right at all reasonable times to examine such books and records and 
all other documents, correspondence, memoranda and other records involving 
transactions relating to agreed projects. The Government of India 
shall enable the authorized representatives of the United States 
to observe and review agreed projects and the utilization of goods and 
services financed under the projects, and shall furnish to the United 
States all such information as it shall reasonably request concerning 
the above-mentioned matters and the expenditures related thereto. 
This broad delegation leaves within our discretion (subject to the always-present 
criterion of the public interest) both the determination 
of what degree of interference shall be considered excessive, and the 
methods by which such excessive interference shall be avoided. _3._ 
The present proceeding is concerned with the standard broadcast (~AM) 
band, from 540 kc& to 1600 kc&. Whenever two or more standard 
broadcast stations operate simultaneously on the same or closely adjacent 
frequencies, each interferes to some extent with reception of 
the other. The extent of such interference- which may be so slight 
as to be undetectable at any point where either of the stations renders 
a usable signal, or may be so great as to virtually destroy the service 
areas of both stations- depends on many factors, among the principal 
ones being the distance between the stations, their respective 
radiated power, and, of particular significance here, <the time of day>. 
Other factors playing a part in the the extent of ~AM service 
and interference are the frequency involved, the time of year, the position 
of the year in the sunspot cycle, ground conductivity along 
the 
transmission path, atmospheric and manmade noise, and others. With the 
existence of these many factors, some of them variable, it obviously 
has never been and is not now possible for the Commission to make assignments 
of ~AM stations on a case-to-case basis which will insure 
against any interference in any circumstances. Rather, such assignments 
are made, as they must be, on the basis of certain overall rules 
and standards, representing to some extent a statistical approach to 
the problem, taking into account for each situation some of the variables 
(e&g&, power and station separations) and averaging out others 
in order to achieve the balance which must be struck between protection 
against destructive interference and the assignment of a number of 
stations large enough to afford optimum radio service to the Nation. 
An example of the overall standards applied is the 20-to-1 ratio established 
for the determination of that degree of cochannel interference 
which is regarded as objectionable. By this standard, it is determined 
that where two stations operating on the same frequency are involved, 
objectionable interference from station ~A exists at any point within 
the service area of station ~B where station ~A's signal 
is of an intensity one-twentieth or more of the strength of station ~B's 
signal at that point. _4._ The 20-to-1 ratio for cochannel 
interference embodies one of the fundamental limiting principles which 
we must always take into account in ~AM assignments and allocations- 
that signals from a particular station are potential sources 
of objectionable interference over an area much greater than that within 
which they provide useful service. A second fundamental principle 
is that involved particularly in the present proceeding- the difference 
between nighttime and daytime propagation conditions with respect 
to the standard broadcast frequencies. This is a phenomenon familiar 
to all radio listeners, resulting from reflection of skywave signals at 
night from the ionized layer in the upper atmosphere known as the ionosphere. 
All ~AM stations radiate both skywave and groundwave signals, 
at all hours; but during the middle daytime hours these skywave 
radiations are not reflected in any substantial quantity, and during 
this portion of the day both skywave service and skywave interference 
are, in general, negligible. But during nighttime hours the skywave 
radiations are reflected from the ionosphere, thereby creating the possibility 
of one station's rendering service, via skywave, at a much 
greater distance than it can through its groundwave signal, and at the 
same time vastly complicating the interference problem because of the 
still greater distance over which these skywave signals may cause interference 
to the signals of stations on the same and closely adjacent 
frequencies. Because of the difference between daytime and nighttime 
propagation conditions, it has been necessary to evolve different allocation 
structures for daytime and nighttime broadcasting in the ~AM 
band, with many more stations operating during the day than at night. 
_5._ It was recognized years ago that the transition from daytime 
to nighttime propagation conditions, and vice versa, is not an instantaneous 
process, but takes place over periods of time from roughly 
2 hours before sunset until about 2 hours after sunset, and again from 
roughly 2 hours before sunrise until some 2 hours after sunrise. During 
the period of about 4 hours around sunset, skywave transmission conditions 
are building up until full nighttime conditions prevail; during 
the same period around sunrise, skywave transmission is declining, 
until at about 2 hours after sunrise it reaches a point where it becomes 
of little practical significance. However, in this case as elsewhere 
it was necessary to arrive at a single standard to be applied to 
all situations, representing an averaging of conditions, and thus to 
fix particular points in time which would be considered the dividing points 
between daytime and nighttime conditions. It was determined that 
the hours of sunrise and sunset, respectively, should be used for this 
purpose. Accordingly, the 1938-39 rules adopted these hours as limitations 
upon the operation of daytime stations. Class /2, stations 
operating on clear channels are required to cease operation or operate 
under nighttime restrictions beginning either at local sunset (for daytime 
class /2, stations) or sunset at the location of the dominant 
class /1, station where located west of the class /2, station (for 
limited-time class /2, stations).   The same restrictions apply 
after local sunset in the case of class /3, stations operating on 
regional channels, which after that time are required to operate under 
nighttime restrictions in order to protect each other. With respect 
to nighttime assignments, the degree of skywave service and interference 
is determined by skywave curves (figs& 1 and 2 of sec& 3.190 
of the rules) giving average skywave values. These curves were derived 
by an analysis of extensive skywave measurement data. It was recognized 
that skywave signals, because of their reflected nature, are of great 
variability and subject to wide fluctuations in strength. For this 
reason, the more uncertain skywave service was denominated "secondary" 
in our rules, as compared to the steadier, more reliable groundwave 
"primary service", and, for both skywave service and skywave 
interference, signal strength is expressed in terms of percentage of 
time a particular signal-intensity level is exceeded- 50 percent of 
the time for skywave service, 10 percent of the time for skywave interference. 

#ALLOCATION POLICIES#

_6._ As mentioned, the allocation 
of ~AM stations represents a balance between protection against 
interference and the provision of opportunity for an adequate number 
of stations. The rules and policies to be applied in this process of 
course must be based on objectives which represent what is to be desired 
if radio service is to be of maximum use to the Nation. Our objectives, 
as we have stated many times, are- _(1)_ To provide some 
service to all listeners; _(2)_ To provide as many choices of 
service to as many listeners as possible; _(3)_ To provide service 
of local origin to as many listeners as possible. Since broadcast 
frequencies are very limited in number, these objectives are to some 
extent inconsistent in that not all of them can be fully realized, and 
to the extent that each is realized, there is a corresponding reduction 
of the possibilities for fullest achievement of the others. Accordingly, 
the Commission has recognized that an optimum allocation pattern 
for one frequency does not necessarily represent the best pattern 
for other frequencies, and has assigned different frequencies for use 
by different classes of stations. Some 45 frequencies are assigned for 
use primarily by dominant <Class /1,- ~A> or <Class /1,- 
~B clear-channel> stations, designed to operate with adequate 
power and to provide service- both groundwave and (at night) skywave- 
over large areas and at great distances, being protected against 
interference to the degree necessary to achieve this objective. In dealing 
with these frequencies, the objective listed first above- provision 
of service to all listeners- was predominant; the other objectives 
were subordinated to it. The class /1, stations on these clear 
channels are protected to their 0.1-mv&/m& groundwave contours 
against daytime cochannel interference. With respect to skywave service 
rendered at night, class /1,- ~A stations are the only stations 
permitted to operate in the United States on clear channels specified 
for class /1,- ~A operation, and so render skywave service 
free 
from cochannel interference whereever they may be received; class 
/1,- ~B stations are protected at night to their 0.5-mv&/m& 
50-percent 
time skywave contours against cochannel interference. Since 
the provision of skywave service requires adequate freedom from interference, 
only class /1, stations are capable of rendering skywave service. 
But nighttime operation by stations of other classes of course 
entails skywave interference to groundwave service, interference which 
is substantial unless steps are taken to minimize it. _7._ With 
respect to other frequencies, these are designated as regional or local, 
and assigned for use by class /3, and class /4, stations, respectively, 
stations operating generally with lower power. In the allocation 
pattern worked out for these frequencies, the provision of long-range 
service has to some extent been subordinated to the other two objectives- 
assignment of multiple facilities, and assignment of stations 
in as many communities as possible. _8._ As mentioned, the primary 
allocation objective to be followed in the allocation of stations 
on clear channels is the provision of widespread service, free from 
destructive interference. During nighttime hours, because of the intense 
skywave propagation then prevailing, no large number of stations can 
be permitted to operate on one of these channels, if the wide area 
service for which these frequencies are assigned is to be rendered satisfactorily 
by the dominant stations which must be relied upon to render 
it. Therefore, under our longstanding allocation rules, on some of 
these channels no station other than the dominant (class /1,- ~A) 
station is permitted to operate at night, so that the /1,- ~A 
station can render service, interference free, wherever it can be received. 
On the remainder of the clear channels, the dominant (class 
/1,- ~B) stations are protected as described above, and the relatively 
small number of secondary (class /2,) stations permitted to operate 
on these channels at night are required to operate directionally 
and/or with reduced power so as to protect the class /1, stations. 
In the daytime, on the other hand, since skywave transmission is relatively 
inefficient, it is possible to assign a substantially larger number 
of stations on these channels. Additional class /2, assignments 
for daytime operation can be made without causing destructive interference 
to the class /1, stations or to each other, and by their operation 
provide additional service on these channels and additional local 
outlets for a large number of communities. Such additional daytime 
class /2, assignments are appropriate if optimum use is to be made 
of these frequencies, and the Commission has over the years made a large 
number of them. Similarly, on the regional channels many class /3, 
stations have been assigned either to operate daytime only or to operate 
nighttime with directional antennas and/or lower power. _9._ 
Essentially, the question presented for decision in the present Daytime 
Skywave proceeding is whether our decision [in 1938-1939] to 
assign stations on the basis of daytime conditions from sunrise to sunset, 
is sound as a basis for ~AM allocations, or whether, in the light 
of later developments and new understanding, skywave transmission 
is of such significance during the hours immediately before sunset and 
after sunrise that this condition should be taken into account, and 
some stations required to afford protection to other stations during these 
hours. 

#THE HISTORY OF THE PROCEEDING#

_10._ The decision 
reached in 1938-39 was made after the accumulation of a large amount 
of data and thorough study thereof. Since then, there has been a notable 
increase in the number of stations and also the accumulation of additional 
data and the development of new techniques for using it, leading 
to a better understanding of propagation phenomena. In 1947, affidavits 
were filed with the Commission by various clear-channel stations 
alleging that extensive interference was being caused to the service 
areas of these stations during daylight hours, from class /2, stations 
whose signals were being reflected from the ionosphere so as to 
create skywave intereference. 
If you elect to use the Standard Deduction or the Tax Table, and 
later find you should have itemized your deductions, you may do so by 
filing an amended return within the time prescribed for filing a claim 
for refund. See <You May Claim a Refund>, Page 135. The same 
is true if you have itemized your deductions and later decide you should 
have used the Standard Deduction or Tax Table. The words {amended 
return} should be plainly written across the top of such return. 
_WHEN AND WHERE TO FILE_ April 15 is usually the final date 
for filing income tax returns for most people because they use the calendar 
year ending on December 31. If you use a fiscal year, a year ending 
on the last day of any month other than December, your return is 
due on or before the 15th day of the 4th month after the close of your 
tax year. _SATURDAY, SUNDAY, OR HOLIDAY._ If the last day (due 
date) for performing {any} act for tax purposes, such as filing a 
return or making a tax payment, etc&, falls on Saturday, Sunday, 
or a legal holiday, you may perform that act on the next succeeding day 
which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. Since April 15, 
1962, is on Sunday your return for the calendar year 1961 will be 
timely filed if it is filed on or before Monday, April 16, 1962.

{IF YOU MAIL A RETURN} or tax payment, you must place it 
in the mails in ample time to reach the district director on or before 
the due date. _DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX._ If you were required 
to file a declaration of estimated tax for the calendar year 1961, 
it is not necessary to pay the fourth installment otherwise due on January 
15, 1962, if you file your income tax return Form 1040, and pay 
your tax in full for the calendar year 1961 by January 31, 1962. The 
filing of an original or amended declaration, otherwise due on January 
15, 1962, is also waived, if you file your Form 1040 for 1961 and 
pay the full tax by January 31, 1962. Farmers, for these purposes, 
have until February 15, 1962, to file Form 1040 and pay the tax in 
full for the calendar year 1961. Fiscal year taxpayers have until the 
last day of the first month following the close of the fiscal year (farmers 
until the 15th day of the 2d month). See Chapter 38.   {Nonresident 
aliens living in Canada or Mexico} who earn wages in 
the United States may be subject to withholding of tax on their wages, 
the same as if they were citizens of the United States. Their 
United States tax returns are due April 16, 1962. However, if their 
United States income is not subject to the withholding of tax on wages, 
their returns are due June 15, 1962, if they use a calendar year, 
or the 15th day of the 6th month after the close of their fiscal year. 
_NONRESIDENT ALIENS IN PUERTO RICO._ If you are a nonresident 
alien and a resident of Puerto Rico, your return is also due June 
15, 1962, or the 15th day of the 6th month after the close of your fiscal 
year.   {IF A TAXPAYER DIES,} the executor, administrator, 
or legal representative must file the final return for the decedent 
on or before the 15th day of the 4th month following the close of 
the deceased taxpayer's normal tax year. Suppose John Jones, who, 
for 1960, filed on the basis of a calendar year, died June 20, 1961. 
His return for the period January 1 to June 20, 1961, is due April 
16, 1962.   The return for a decedent may also serve as a claim 
for refund of an overpayment of tax. In such a case, Form 1310 should 
be completed and attached to the return. This form may be obtained 
from the local office of your district director.   {RETURNS 
OF ESTATES OR TRUSTS} are due on or before the 15th day of the 
4th month after the close of the tax year. _EXTENSIONS OF TIME FOR 
FILING._ Under unusual circumstances a resident individual may be 
granted an extension of time to file a return. You may apply for such 
an extension by filing Form 2688, <Application For Extension Of 
Time To File>, with the District Director of Internal Revenue 
for your district, or you may make your application in a letter. Your 
application must include the following information: (1) your reasons 
for requesting an extension, (2) whether you filed timely income tax 
returns for the 3 preceding years, and (3) whether you were required 
to file an estimated return for the year, and if so whether you did file 
and have paid the estimated tax payments on or before the due dates. 
Any failure to file timely returns or make estimated tax payments 
when due must be fully explained. Extensions are not granted as a matter 
of course, and the reasons for your request must be substantial. If 
you are unable to sign the request, because of illness or other good 
cause, another person who stands in close personal or business relationship 
to you may sign the request on your behalf, stating the reason 
why you are unable to sign. You should make any request for an extension 
early so that if it is refused, your return may still be on time. 
See also <Interest on Unpaid Taxes>, below. _EXTENSIONS WHILE 
ABROAD._ Citizens of the United States who, on April 15, are not 
in the United States or Puerto Rico, are allowed an extension of 
time until June 15 for filing the return for the preceding calendar 
year. An extension of 2 months beyond the regular due date for filing 
is also available to taxpayers making returns for a fiscal year. _ALASKA 
AND HAWAII._ Taxpayers residing or traveling in Alaska are also 
allowed this extension of time for filing, but those residing or traveling 
in Hawaii are {not} allowed this automatic extension.

{Military or Naval Personnel} on duty in Alaska or outside 
the United States and Puerto Rico are also allowed this automatic 
extension of time for filing their returns.   {You must attach 
a statement} to your return, if you take advantage of this automatic 
extension, showing that you were in Alaska or were outside the United 
States or Puerto Rico on April 15 or other due date. _INTEREST 
ON UNPAID TAXES._ Interest at the rate of 6% a year must be paid 
on taxes that are not paid on or before their due date. Such interest 
must be paid even though an {extension of time for filing} is granted. 
_WHEN PAYMENT IS DUE._ If your computation on Form 1040 or 
Form 1040~A shows you owe additional tax, it should be remitted 
with your return unless you owe less than $1, in which case it is forgiven. 
If payment is by cash, you should ask for a receipt. If you file 
Form 1040~A and the District Director computes your tax, you 
will be sent a bill if additional tax is due. This bill should be paid 
within 30 days. _PAYMENT BY CHECK OR MONEY ORDER._ Whether the 
check is certified or uncertified, the tax is not paid until the check 
is paid. If the check is not good and the April 15 or other due date 
deadline elapses, additions to the tax may be incurred. Furthermore, 
a bad check may subject the maker to certain penalties. All checks 
and money orders should be made payable to <Internal Revenue Service>. 
_REFUNDS._ An overpayment of income and social security taxes 
entitles you to a refund unless you indicate on the return that the 
overpayment should be applied to your succeeding year's estimated 
tax.   {If you file Form 1040~A} and the District Director 
computes your tax, any refund to which you are entitled will be 
mailed to you.   {If you file a Form 1040,} you should indicate 
in the place provided that there is an overpayment of tax and the 
amount you want refunded and the amount you want credited against your 
estimated tax.   {Refunds of less than $1} will not be made 
unless you attach a separate application to your return requesting such 
a refund. _WHERE TO FILE._ Send your return to the Director 
of Internal Revenue for the district in which you have your legal residence 
or principal place of business. If you have neither a legal residence 
nor a principal place of business in any internal revenue district, 
your return should be filed with the District Director of Internal 
Revenue, Baltimore 2, Md&. If your principal place of abode 
for the tax year is outside the United States (including Alaska 
and Hawaii), Puerto Rico, or the Virgin Islands and you have no legal 
residence or principal place of business in any internal revenue 
district in the United States, you should file your return with the 
Office of International Operations, Internal Revenue Service, Washington 
25, D&C&. _ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME_ The deductions 
allowed in determining Adjusted Gross Income put all taxpayers on 
a comparable basis. It is the amount you enter on line 9, page 1 of Form 
1040. Some deductions are subtracted from Gross Income to determine 
Adjusted Gross Income. Other deductions are subtracted only 
from Adjusted Gross Income in arriving at Taxable Income. 
{TO COMPUTE YOUR ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME} you total all items 
of income. (See Chapter 6.) From this amount deduct the items indicated 
below.   {Businessmen} deduct all ordinary and necessary 
expenses attributable to a trade or business. _RENTS OR ROYALTIES._ 
If you hold property for the production of rents or royalties you 
subtract, in computing Adjusted Gross Income, ordinary and necessary 
expenses and certain other deductions attributable to the property. 
(See Chapter 15.)   {Outside salesmen} deduct all expenses 
attributable to earning a salary, commission, or other compensation. 
(See Chapter 10.)   {Employees} deduct expenses of travel, 
meals and lodging while away from home in connection with the performance 
of their services as employees. They also deduct transportation 
expenses incurred in connection with the performance of services as employees 
even though they are not away from home. (See Chapter 12.) 
If your employer reimburses you for expenses incurred, you deduct such 
expenses if they otherwise qualify. (See Chapter 10.)   {Sick 
pay,} if included in your Gross Income, is deducted in arriving 
at Adjusted Gross Income. If your sick pay is not included in your 
Gross Income, you may not deduct it. (See Chapter 9.) _INCOME 
FROM ESTATES AND TRUSTS._ If you are a life tenant, you deduct allowable 
depreciation and depletion. If you are an income beneficiary of 
property held in trust or an heir, legatee, or devisee, you may deduct 
allowable depreciation and depletion, if not deductible by the estate 
or trust.   {Deductible losses on sales or exchanges} of 
property are allowable in determining your Adjusted Gross Income. (See 
Chapter 20.) _50% OF CAPITAL GAINS._ You also deduct 50% 
of the excess of net long-term capital gains over net short-term capital 
losses in determining Adjusted Gross Income. (See Chapter 24.) 
_OTHER DEDUCTIONS._ Certain other deductions are not allowed in 
determining Adjusted Gross Income. They may be claimed only by itemizing 
them on page 2 of Form 1040. These deductions may not be claimed 
if you elect to use the Standard Deduction or tax Table. (See 
Chapters 30 through 37.) 

#2. MINORS MINORS MUST ALSO FILE RETURNS 
IF THEY EARN $600 OR MORE DURING THE YEAR.#

A MINOR IS subject 
to tax on his own earnings even though his parent may, under local 
law, have the right to them and might actually have received the money. 
His income is not required to be included in the return of his parent.

{A MINOR CHILD IS ALLOWED A PERSONAL EXEMPTION} 
of $600 on his own return regardless of how much money he may earn. _EXEMPTION 
ALSO ALLOWED PARENT._ If your child is under 19 or is a 
student you may also claim an exemption for him if he qualifies as your 
dependent, even though he earns $600 or more. See Chapter 5. _EXAMPLE._ 
Your 16 year old son earned $720 in 1961. You spent $800 for 
his support. Since he had gross income of $600 or more, he must file 
a return in which he may claim an exemption deduction of $600. Since 
you contributed more than half of his support, you may also claim an 
exemption for him on your return. _HE MAY GET A TAX REFUND._ A 
minor who has gross income of less than $600 is entitled to a refund if 
income tax was withheld from his wages. Generally, the refund may be 
obtained by filing Form 1040~A accompanied by the withholding statement 
(Form ~W-2). If he had income other than wages subject to 
withholding, he may be required to file Form 1040. See Chapter 1.

{IF YOUR CHILD WORKS FOR YOU,} you may deduct reasonable 
wages you paid to him for services he rendered in your business. 
You may deduct these payments even though your child uses the money to 
purchase his own clothing or other necessities which you are normally 
obligated to furnish him, and even though you may be entitled to his 
services. 
The one- or two-season hunt, of which there have been too many recently, 
may do more harm than good; for such programs raise hopes of assistance 
toward achieving excellence in scholarship and the arts which 
are dashed when the programs are discontinued; and they are dashed, 
no less, by lack of skill in making selections of men and women for development 
toward the highest reaches of the mind and spirit.   For 
the making of selections on the basis of excellence requires that any 
foundation making the selections shall have available the judgments 
of a corps of advisors whose judgments are known to be good: such judgments 
can be known to be good only by the records of those selected, 
by records made subsequent to their selection over considerable periods 
of time.   The central group of the Foundation's advisors 
are, at any one period of time, the members of our Advisory Board, 
consisting, now, of thirty-six men and women. They are chosen by the 
Foundation's Board of Trustees on the bases of their own first-rate 
accomplishments in their different fields of scholarship and the arts. 
Their locations in all parts of the United States, and their locations 
in the several kinds of educational and research institutions 
that are the principal homes of our intellectual and artistic strengths 
also are factors in the Trustees' minds. For this concept of an 
Advisory Board, ancillary to the Board of Trustees, we are indebted 
to the late President of Harvard University, A& Lawrence Lowell, 
a master of the subject of the structure of cultural institutions 
and their administration. That we had the wit and wisdom to adopt Mr& 
Lowell's concept and make it the base for our processes of selection 
is one reason why our selections have been, it may be said truly, 
pretty uniformly good.   For in accordance with Mr& Lowell's 
concept of an advisory board, our selections are made by experienced 
selectors who give both constancy and consistency to our processes 
and our choices. And lest we should become too consistent, in the 
sense of becoming heedless of new fields of scholarship and new points 
of view in the arts, the Foundation's Board of Trustees maintains 
a trickle- not a flow!- of new members through the Advisory Board.

Two committees of members of the Advisory Board constitute 
the committees of selection- one for the selection of Fellows 
from Canada, the United States, and the English-speaking Caribbean 
area and one for the selection of Fellows from the Latin American 
republics and the Republic of the Philippines.   To the members 
of our Advisory Board, and most specially to its members who constitute 
our committees of selection, the Foundation is indebted for its 
successes of choice of Fellows. We are, as we know, utterly dependent 
on the quality of advice we get; and quality of advice, added to 
devotion to the Foundation's purposes and ideals, we do get from 
our Advisory Board in measures so full that they can be appreciated 
only by those of us who work here every day.   But the facts about 
our Advisory Board and its members' duties are only one of several 
sets of facts about the quest for advice, both reliable and imaginative, 
on which to base our selections of Fellows. For example, the 
interest of past members of the Foundation's Advisory Board remains 
such that they place their knowledge and judgments at our disposal 
much as they had done when they were, formally, members of that Board. 
And, besides, there are a large number of scholars, artists, composers 
of music, novelists, poets, essayists, choreographers, lawyers, servants 
of government, and men of affairs- hundreds, indeed- who serve 
the Foundation well with the advice they give us freely and gratis 
out of their experience.   To all, the Foundation gives the kind 
of thanks which are more than thanks: to them we are grateful beyond 
the possibility of conveying in words how grateful we are. #@# 

IT IS a truism of business that no business can be better than 
its board of directors and its top management. The same is true of 
every foundation. During the biennium reviewed in this Report, our 
Board of Trustees named able men, younger than the rest of us, to the 
Board and to top management to insure future continuance of the first-class 
administration of the Foundation's affairs:   Dr& 
James Brown Fisk, physicist, President of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, 
was elected to the Board of Trustees. He is a member 
both of the National Academy of Sciences and of the American Philosophical 
Society; and he has served our country well as a scientific 
statesman on international commissions.   Dr& Gordon N& 
Ray, Provost, Vice-President and Professor of English in the University 
of Illinois, was appointed Associate Secretary General. 
The Trustees of the Foundation appointed Dr& Ray to that position 
with the stated expectation that he would succeed the present Secretary 
General upon the latter's eventual retirement. Dr& Ray is 
a Fellow of the Foundation- appointed thrice to assist his studies 
of William Makepeace Thackeray and of H& G& Wells- and, 
before his appointment to the Foundation's executive staff, had been 
given our highest scholarly accolade, appointment to the Advisory Board.

Referring further to the Foundation's officers, Dr& 
James F& Mathias, for eleven years our discerning colleague as 
Associate Secretary, was promoted to be Secretary. He is a historian, 
with the great merit of a historian's long view.   Also appointed 
to the Foundation's staff, as Assistant Secretary, is Mr& 
J& Kellum Smith, Jr&. Mr& Smith, like the present Secretary 
General, is a lawyer; and lawyers- with the great virtues 
that they are trained to read "the fine print" carefully and are 
able out of professional experience to arrive at imaginative solutions 
to difficult problems in many fields- are indispensable even in a foundation 
office.   The present Secretary General has been the 
Foundation's principal administrative officer continuously since the 
Foundation's establishment thirty-five years ago. But even he will 
not last indefinitely and the above-noted new arrangements are, quite 
simply, made to assure qualitative continuity in the Foundation's 
policies and practices. The effective recognition of excellence and 
its nurture has to be learned and is not learned in a day, nor even 
in a year. #@#

WE ARE not given to lamentations, neither personally 
nor in these Reports. On the contrary, if this be an apocalyptic 
era as is commonly said, we see it as an era of opportunity. For, 
granting that there are great present-day problems to be solved, these 
problems make great demands; and by their demanding tend to create 
resources of men's minds and hearts which problems with easy answers 
do not bring forth. Of this, examples are legion: Pericles speaking 
his funeral oration in Ancient Greece's extremity after Thermopylae 
and making it a testament of freedom; Jefferson writing the 
Declaration of Independence amid the catastrophes of revolution; 
Christ preaching the Sermon on the Mount, close to his ultimate sacrifice; 
Shakespeare speaking with "the indescribable gusto of the 
Elizabethan voice"- Keats's words- in the days of the Spanish 
Armada's threats; Isaac Newton, at the age of twenty-three, 
industriously calculating logarithms "to two and fifty places" during 
the great plague year in England, 1665; Winston Churchill's 
Olympian, optimistic and resolute sayings when Britain stood alone 
against the armed forces of tyranny less than twenty years ago; the 
present-day explorations of outer space, answering age-old questions 
of science and philosophy, in the face of possible wars of extinction.

<Forsan et haec olim meminisse iuvabit>, as the Roman poet, 
Virgil, declared with much more historical sense than most writers 
of today. It gives, indeed, cause for rejoicing to remember what many 
catastrophes of the past produced; and it is to be noted also that 
confidence should grow from remembering that great men often appeared 
in the past to turn local catastrophe into future good for all mankind.

For example, out of the social evils of the English industrial 
revolution came the novels of Charles Dickens; and his genius 
moved his readers to seek solutions of those evils for all Western men- 
until today-, in the industrialized West, these social evils 
substantially do not exist. The solutions were not arrived at by any 
theoreticians of the Karl Marx stripe but by men of government- lawyers, 
most of them- and men of business. These were educated men, 
who, as Mr& Justice Holmes was fond of saying, formed their inductions 
out of experience under the burden of responsibility. That is, 
to put it realistically, they had to run their businesses at a profit, 
or they had to get the votes to get elected. Nevertheless, they made 
naught of Marx's prophecy that capitalism would never pay the "workers"- 
to use Marx's word- more than a subsistence wage, with 
the consequence that increased productivity must inevitably find its 
way into the capitalists' pockets with the result, in turn, that the 
gap between the rich and the poor would irrevocably widen and the misery 
of the poor increase.   But as all understand who have eyes 
to see, nothing of the kind has happened; indeed, the contrary has 
happened. The gulf between the "rich" and the "poor" has narrowed, 
in the industrialized Western world, to the point that the word 
"poor" is hardly applicable. And the reason this could happen is 
clear: men of government, business men, lawyers and all who concerned 
themselves with the welfare of their fellow men did not let their 
concern to run their businesses at a profit restrict the development of 
freedom and opportunity. Some would say that they were not permitted 
to run their businesses only for profit; and even putting it that 
way would not prove that Marx was anything but wrong.   Sir Henry 
Sumner Maine, a hundred years before Communism was a force to be 
reckoned with, wrote his brilliant legal generalization, that "the 
progress of society is from status to contract". The essence of contract 
is that one is free to make a choice of what one will or will not 
do. Hence, the condition of freedom is a necessary condition for choice. 
The greater the range of freedom for individual men, the greater 
the range of choice; the greater the range of choice, the greater 
the rate of change. For change is dependent on the possibilities that 
individual men glimpse for the future. But when there is not freedom 
and opportunity to choose, men- individual men- must remain in status 
and society does not, cannot progress.   The eternal truth 
is that progress- due, as it always is, to individual creative genius- 
is just as dependent on freedom as human life is dependent on the 
beating of the heart.   And lest anybody think that considerations 
such as these are not germane in a foundation report, let me enlighten 
them with the truths that, under Communism there would have been 
no capital with which to endow the Foundation, and that there would 
not be that individual freedom within which the Fellows might proceed, 
untrammeled in every way, toward their discoveries, their creative 
efforts for the good of mankind. #@#

DURING the year 1959, 
we granted 354 Fellowships; in 1960, we granted 334. As heretofore, 
our Fellowships are available to assist research in all fields of 
knowledge and creative effort in all the arts. We do not favor one field 
over another: we think that all inquiry, all scholarly and artistic 
creation, is good- provided only that it contributes to a sense 
and understanding of the true ends of life, as all first-rate scholarship 
and artistic creation does. Indeed, if pressed, we would say what 
the late Robert Henri, American painter, said to a pupil, "Anything 
will do for a subject: it's what <you> do with it that counts".

Thus, we have no part, and want none, in current discussions 
of the relative importance of science, the social studies, the humanities, 
the creative arts. We want no part in such discussions, because 
we think them largely futile; and we think them largely futile because, 
for true excellence of accomplishment, every scholar and every 
artist must cross boundaries of knowledge and boundaries of points of 
view.

When the Brown + Sharpe Manufacturing Company reached its 
125th year as a going industrial concern during 1958, it became an almost 
unique institution in the mechanical world.   With its history 
standing astride all but the very beginnings of the industrial revolution, 
Brown + Sharpe has become over the years a singular monument 
to the mechanical foresight of its founder, Joseph R& Brown, and 
a world-renowned synonym for precision and progress in metalworking technology.

Joseph R& Brown grew up in the bustle and enterprise 
of New England between 1810 and 1830. He was early exposed to 
the mechanical world, and in his youth often helped his father, David 
Brown, master clock and watchmaker, as he plied his trade. At the 
age of 17 he became an apprentice machinist at the shop of Walcott + 
Harris in Valley Falls, Rhode Island, and following two or three 
other jobs in quick succession after graduation, he went into business 
for himself in 1831, making lathes and small tools. This enterprise 
led to a father-and-son combination beginning in 1833, under the name 
D& Brown + Son, a business which eventually grew into the modern 
corporation we now call Brown + Sharpe.   The years of Joseph's 
partnership with his father were numbered. In 1838, a devastating 
fire gutted their small shop and soon thereafter David Brown moved 
west to Illinois, settling on a land grant in his declining years.

Joseph Brown continued in business by himself, quickly rebuilding 
the establishment which had been lost in the fire and beginning those 
first steps which were to establish him as a pioneer in raising the 
standards of accuracy of machine shop practice throughout the world.

Much of his genius, of course, sprang from his familiarity with 
clock movements. During these early years the repair of watches and 
clocks and the building of special clocks for church steeples formed 
an important part of the young man's occupation. He became particularly 
interested in graduating and precision measurement during the 1840's, 
and his thinking along these lines developed considerably during 
this period. But his business also grew, and we are told that Mr& 
Brown found it 
increasingly difficult to devote as much time to his 
creative thinking as his inclinations led him to desire. It must have 
been with some pleasure and relief that on September 12, 1848, Joseph 
Brown made the momentous entry in his job book, in his characteristically 
cryptic style, "Lucian Sharpe came to work for me this day 
as an apprentice".   The young apprentice apparently did well 
by Mr& Brown, for in the third year of his apprenticeship Lucian 
was offered a full partnership in the firm; the company became "J& 
R& Brown + Sharpe", and entered into a new and important 
period of its development. Mr& Sharpe's arrival in the business 
did indeed provide what Mr& Brown had most coveted- time for "tinkering", 
and the opportunity of carrying out in the back room those 
developments in precision graduation which most interested him at that 
time.   By 1853, the new partnership announced the precision 
vernier caliper as the first fruit of their joint efforts. The basic 
significance of this invention helped them to follow it rapidly in 1855 
by the development of a unique precision gear cutting and dividing 
engine. That development, in turn, formed the foundation of still more 
significant expansions in later years- in gear cutting, in circular 
graduating, in index drilling, and in many other fields where accuracy 
was a paramount requirement.   Throughout their careers, both 
Mr& Brown and Mr& Sharpe were interested in the problem of setting 
up standards of measurement for the mechanical trades. Several 
efforts were made in this direction, and though not all of them survive 
to this day, the Brown + Sharpe wire gage system was eventually adopted 
as the American standard and is still in common use today.

As one development followed another, the company's reputation for 
precision in the graduating field brought it broader and broader opportunities 
for expansion in precision manufacture. In 1858, the partnership 
began manufacturing the Willcox + Gibbs sewing machine.

As the story goes, Mr& Gibbs, who originally came from the back 
counties of the Commonwealth of Virginia, saw an illustration in a 
magazine of the famous Howe sewing machine. Curious as to what made 
it work, he built a crude model of it in wood, and filed a piece of steel 
until he succeeded in making a metal pickup for the thread, enabling 
the crude machine to take stitches. When he showed this model as his 
"solution" as to how the Howe sewing machine operated, he was 
told he was "wrong", and discovered to his amazement that the Howe 
Machine, which was unknown to him in detail, used two threads while 
the one that he had perfected used only one. Thus was invented the 
single thread sewing machine, which Mr& Gibbs in partnership with 
Mr& Willcox decided to bring to Brown + Sharpe with the proposal 
that the small company undertake its manufacture.   The new work 
was a boon to the partnership, not only for its own value but particularly 
for the stimulation it provided to the imagination of J& R& 
Brown toward yet further developments for production equipment.

The turret screw machine, now known as the Brown + Sharpe hand 
screw machine, takes its ancestry directly from Mr& Brown's efforts 
to introduce equipment to simplify the manufacture of the sewing 
machine. Mr& Brown made important additions to the arts in screw machine 
design by drastically improving the means for revolving the turret, 
by introducing automatic feeding devices for the stock, and reversible 
tap and die holders.   In 1861, Mr& Brown's attention 
was called to yet another basic production problem- the manufacture 
of twist drills. At that time, during the Civil War, Union muskets 
were being manufactured in Providence and the drills to drill them 
were being hand-filed with rattail files. This process neither satisfied 
the urgent production schedules nor Mr& Brown's imagination 
of the possibilities in the situation. The child of this problem was 
Mr& Brown's famous Serial No& 1 Universal Milling Machine, 
the archtype from which is descended today's universal knee-type 
milling machine used throughout the world. The original machine, bearing 
its famous serial number, is still on exhibition at the Brown + Sharpe 
Precision Center in Providence.   During the Civil War 
period Mr& Brown also invented the Brown + Sharpe formed tooth 
gear cutter, a basic invention which ultimately revolutionized the world's 
gear manufacturing industry by changing its basic economics. 
Up until that time it had been possible to make cutters for making gear 
teeth, but they were good for only one sharpening. As soon as the 
time came for re-sharpening, the precise form of the gear tooth was lost 
and a new cutter had to be made. This process made the economical 
manufacture of gears questionable until some way could be found to permit 
the repeated re-sharpening of gear tooth cutters without the loss 
of the precision form. Mr& Brown's invention achieved this and, 
as a byproduct, formed the cornerstone of Brown + Sharpe's position 
of leadership in the gear making equipment field which lasted until 
the 1920's when superceded by other methods.   The micrometer 
caliper, as a common workshop tool, also owes much to J& R& Brown. 
Although Mr& Brown was not himself its inventor (it was a French 
idea), it is typical that his intuition first conceived the importance 
of mass producing this basic tool for general use. So it was 
that when Mr& Brown and Mr& Sharpe first saw the French tool 
on exhibition in Paris in 1868, they brought a sample with them to the 
United States and started Brown + Sharpe in yet another field where 
it retains its leadership to this day.   The final achievement 
of Mr& Brown's long and interesting mechanical career runs a 
close second in importance to his development of the universal milling 
machine. That achievement was his creation of the universal grinding 
machine, which made its appearance in 1876 at the Philadelphia Centennial 
Exposition. This machine, like its milling counterpart, was 
the antecedent of a machine-family used to this very day in precision 
metalworking shops throughout the world. Along with J& R& Brown's 
other major developments, the universal grinding machine was profoundly 
influential in setting the course of Brown + Sharpe for many 
years to come.   Following Mr& Brown's death, there came 
forward in the Brown + Sharpe organization many other men who contributed 
greatly to the development of the company. One such man was Samuel 
Darling.   As head of the firm Darling + Swartz, Mr& 
Darling began by challenging Brown + Sharpe to its keenest competition 
during the 1850's and early 60's. In 1868, however, a truce 
was called between the companies, and the partnership of Darling, brown 
+ Sharpe was formed. Between that year and the buying out of Mr& 
Darling's interest in 1892, a large portion of the company's precision 
tool business was carried out under the name of Darling, Brown 
+ Sharpe, and to this day many old precision tools are in use still 
bearing that famous trademark.   Perhaps the outstanding standard 
bearer of Mr& Brown's tradition for accuracy was Mr& Oscar 
J& Beale, whose mechanical genius closely paralleled that of 
Mr& Brown, and whose particular forte was the development of the exceedingly 
accurate measuring machinery that enabled Brown + Sharpe 
to manufacture gages, and therefore its products, with an accuracy exceeding 
anything then available elsewhere in the world.   Also important 
on the Brown + Sharpe scene, at the turn of the century, was 
Mr& Richmond Viall, Works Superintendent of the company from 
1876 to 1910. Mr& Viall possessed remarkable talents for the leadership 
and development of men. He was an ardent champion of the Brown 
+ Sharpe Apprentice Program and personal counselor to countless able 
men who first developed their industrial talents with the company. 
In one sense it can be said that one of the most important Brown + Sharpe 
products over the years has been the men who began work with the 
company and subsequently came to places of industrial eminence throughout 
the nation and even abroad.   Commencing with the death of 
Lucian Sharpe in 1899, the name of Henry D& Sharpe was for more 
than 50 years closely interwoven with the destiny of the company. During 
his presidency, the company's physical plant was enormously expanded, 
and the length and breadth of the Brown + Sharpe machine tool 
line became the greatest in the world. During the early part of this 
century, the Brown + Sharpe works in Providence were unchallenged 
as the largest single manufacturing facility devoted exclusively to 
precision machinery and tool manufacture anywhere in the world. 
During these years the company's product line followed the basic tenets 
laid down by Mr& Brown. It expanded from hand screw machines 
to automatic screw machines, from simple formed-tooth gear cutting machines 
to gear hobbing machines and a large contract gear manufacturing 
business, from rudimentary belt-driven universal milling machines to 
a broad line of elaborately controlled knee-type and manufacturing type 
milling machines. In the grinding machine field, expansion went far 
from universal grinders alone and took in cylindrical grinders, surface 
grinders, and a wide variety of special and semi-special models.

In 1951, Henry D& Sharpe, Jr& succeeded his father and 
continued 
the company's development as a major factor in the metal-working 
equipment business. The company is still broadening its line and 
is now active on four major fronts.   The Machine Tool Division 
is currently producing Brown + Sharpe single spindle automatic screw 
machines, grinding machines of many types, and knee and bed-type 
milling machines. Recently added is the Brown + Sharpe turret drilling 
machine which introduces the company to an entirely new field of tool 
development.   In the Industrial Products Division, the company 
manufactures and markets a wide line of precision gaging and inspection 
equipment, machinists' tools- including micrometers, Vernier 
calipers, and accessories.   In the Cutting Tool Division, 
the principal products include a wide variety of high speed steel milling 
cutters, end mills and saws. 
Sales and net income for the year ended December 31, 1960 showed an 
improvement over 1959. Net income was $2,557,111, or $3.11 per share 
on 821,220 common shares currently outstanding, as compared to $2,323,867 
or $2.82 per share in 1959, adjusted to the same number of shares.

Sales and other operating income increased 25.1% from $24,926,615 
in 1959 to $31,179,816 in 1960. This increase was sufficient to 
overcome the effect on net income of higher costs of manufacture and 
increased expenditures on research and development.   In spite 
of the fact that our largest market, the textile industry, was affected 
substantially by the current decline in business activity, we have 
been able to produce and deliver our machines throughout the year 1960 
at a rate materially higher than during 1959. 

#OUTLOOK FOR CURRENT 
YEAR#

Our current rate of incoming orders has now contracted and 
unless this trend can be reversed, our production for 1961 will be lower 
than for 1960.   However, the healthy inventory position of 
the textile industry lends support to the broadly expressed belief that 
improvement in that industry can be expected by the second half of 1961. 

#NEED FOR SOUND TAX POLICY#

In connection with our continuing 
development of new and more efficient mill machinery, a sounder U& 
S& income tax policy on depreciation of production equipment, enabling 
the mills to charge off the cost of new machines on a more realistic 
basis, could, if adopted, have favorable effects on Leesona's 
business in the next few years.   Such a depreciation policy would 
also, we believe, prove a very important factor in strengthening the 
competitive position of the U& S& textile and other industries, 
thus helping to strengthen the position of the dollar in foreign exchange. 

#RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT#

Our research and development program, 
serving as it does an industry which must compete against low-cost 
production throughout the world, continues to have primary emphasis 
at Leesona.   This program is based on the policy of designing 
and building efficient machines which will help produce better textile 
values- fabrics whose cost in relation to quality, fashion and utility 
provide the consumer with better textile products for the money.

Such policy involves continuing effort to improve on existing 
mill equipment, in terms of efficiency and versatility. But more important, 
we believe, it must concentrate on the development of entirely 
new concepts in textile processing as do the Unifil loom winder and 
our more recent Uniconer automatic coning machine. 

#BUDGET INCREASED# 

On this basis, our already substantial budget for research and 
development has been further increased in recent years in order to finance 
the continuing engineering and design work essential to Leesona's 
future growth in sales and earnings.   Much of this necessary 
increase in research and development, though properly chargeable to 
current expenses, is not reflected in earnings until projects are completed 
and the new machines sold in quantity, usually over a period of 
several years. 

#STRETCH YARN MACHINES#

In December we began to 
ship our ultra-high-speed stretch yarn machines. These machines produce 
the higher quality stretch yarns required in weaving stretch and textured 
fabrics. During the past year, great progress has been made by 
the weaving mills in creating new stretch and textured fabrics. Fashion 
centers are now predicting broad acceptance of sports apparel and 
improved "wash and wear" dresses and blouses made from these fabrics.

This machine, operating at speeds up to 350,000 revolutions 
per minute, is believed to provide one of the fastest mechanical operations 
in industry today. It transfers yarn directly from the producers' 
largest package into ideal supply packages for use on Unifil loom 
winders in weaving stretch yarn fabrics. 

#LARGE-PACKAGE TWISTER# 

Our new large-package ring twister for glass fiber yarns is performing 
well in our customers' mills. Later in the year, additional types 
of this Leesona twister will be made available to mills for other 
man-made fibers and natural yarns. These machines are designed to provide 
higher operating speeds, larger yarn packages, and greater flexibility 
of application to different types of yarn. This we believe will 
substantially broaden the potential market for the equipment. 

#UNICONER# 

Major activity at Providence in 1961 will involve the scheduled 
completion of tooling for production of the Uniconer automatic 
coning machine. This work is progressing on schedule and we expect to 
make initial shipments in the fourth quarter of this year. This machine 
was demonstrated in two textile machinery exhibitions last year and 
was well received by the industry. The potential market for the machine 
should be comparable to that of the Unifil loom winder.   The 
Uniconer has several outstanding features- it operates with much 
greater efficiency than existing equipment; it incorporates an automatic 
knot-tying device on each spindle, and it will knot a break in 
the yarn in 10 seconds as well as tie in new bobbins as the running end 
is exhausted.   Because the bobin-to-cone winding process is a 
relatively high-cost operation for the mill, the almost complete automation 
provided by the Uniconer can mean important economies in textile 
production, at the same time upgrading quality. Many mills have already 
placed firm orders for this machine. 

#NEW UNIFIL APPLICATION# 

A new application for the Unifil loom winder, running single filling 
for box looms, will broaden mill use of this equipment. 

#TAKE-UP 
MACHINES#

A new spinning take-up machine has been developed to facilitate 
the use of our take-up machine in the production of thermoplastic 
yarns. It is equipped with electronic controls that can be set to 
hold precise tension and speed.   This new machine takes up filament 
yarn from spinneret or extruder and winds large packages at speeds 
up to 6,000 feet per minute. It is equipped with an automatic threading 
device to reduce waste and handling time.   Our take-up machines 
and our twister-coners are undergoing important pilot plant testing 
for application with new high polymer yarns, in several fiber producing 
plants. We look forward to a stronger position in this expanding 
field. 

#DIVERSIFICATION PLANS#

We are interested in further diversification 
into other fields of capital goods, or components for industrial 
products, and have recently intensified our efforts in that direction. 

#PATTERSON MOOS RESEARCH#

Our Patterson Moos Research 
Division has made further very encouraging progress in development of 
fuel cells. The cooperation of our exclusive American licensee, Pratt 
+ Whitney Aircraft Division of United Aircraft Corporation, 
has been important in this work. In addition to its major effort on fuel 
cells, Patterson Moos Research Division is continuing to carry 
on research in other fields, both under contract for the Defense Department, 
other government agencies and for our own account. ~PMR 
is currently supplying components vital to the Titan and Minuteman 
programs.   We have recently entered into an agreement with Compagnie 
Generale de Telegraphie Sans Fil (~CSF) of France for 
the exclusive exchange of technical information on thermoelectric materials. 
The agreement gives us rights for manufacturing and marketing 
of such materials in the United States. Initially we will import the 
thermoelectric materials and modules from France but later we will 
manufacture in this country. There is a rapidly growing demand for this 
material, primarily from the military. Further research, we believe, 
will develop important commercial applications.   A project for 
the Air Force has been completed in which the ~NAIR infrared 
detecting device was developed for area monitoring of noxious or dangerous 
gases.   We are initiating research on the use of solid state 
materials for infrared detection using a method which will not require 
cooling of materials to attain high sensitivity.   The rapid 
advance in science today suggests many other avenues of investigation. 
Our plan is to keep abreast of these advances, and select for development 
those fields which seem most promising for our special capabilities. 

#NEW PLANT FACILITIES#

Early in August we broke ground 
for a new $3,500,000 plant in Warwick, Rhode Island, which will house 
our textile and coil winding machinery operations. Construction is 
well along, and the plant is scheduled for completion in November of 
this year. All operations now carried on at our plant at Cranston will 
be transferred to Warwick. Operations in the new plant should be 
producing efficiently early in 1962.   An architect's sketch 
of the new plant is shown on the front cover. The building will contain 
430,000 square feet, approximately the same as our present plant. However, 
its modern one-story layout is designed to increase our production 
capacity, permit more efficient manufacturing, and substantially 
reduce current repair and maintenance costs.   A major consideration 
in the choice of the Warwick site, four miles from Cranston, was 
the fact that it permits retention of our present trained and highly 
skilled work force.   We have entered into an agreement for the 
sale of the present Cranston properties, effective as soon as we have 
completed removal to our new plant. 

#BRITISH SUBSIDIARY#

During 
the year our British subsidiary, Leesona-Holt, Limited, expanded 
its plant in Darwen, England, and added machine tool capacity. The 
operations of its other plant in Rochdale and Leesona's former operations 
in Manchester were transferred to a recently acquired plant 
in the adjoining town of Heywood. Layout and equipment were modernized 
and improved to obtain increased production on an efficient basis. 
The area available at Heywood is approximately three times the size 
of the former Rochdale and Manchester locations. In addition, land 
has been purchased to permit doubling the size of the plant in the future. 

#FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS#

The new Warwick plant is being built 
at our expense and under our direction. It will be transfered on 
completion to The Industrial Foundation of Rhode Island, a non-profit 
organization, which will reimburse us for the cost of construction. 
we will then occupy the new plant under lease, with an option to purchase. 
These arrangements are, in our opinion, very favorable to Leesona. 
Interim financing of construction costs is provided by a short 
term loan from The Chase Manhattan Bank.   In addition to expenditures 
on the Warwick plant, we have invested approximately $1,961,000 
for machinery and equipment at Cranston, and for new machinery, 
plant and equipment at Leesona-Holt, Limited. We believe that these 
improved facilities will contribute income and effect savings which 
will fully justify the investment.   Long term loans have been 
reduced by $395,000 to $2,461,000. Inventories increased $625,561 to 
$8,313,514 during the year and should decline in coming months. Thus 
we enter 1961 in a strong financial position. 

#EMPLOYEE CONTRACTS# 

In accordance with the two-year contract signed in May, 1959, with 
the International Association of Machinists, ~AFL-CIO, wages 
of hourly employees were increased by 4% in May, 1960, and pay levels 
for non-exempt salaried employees were increased proportionately. 
In addition, Blue Cross coverage for all employees and their dependents 
was extended to provide the full cost of semi-private hospital 
accommodations. 

#PERSONNEL BENEFITS#

In addition to direct salaries 
and wages, the Company paid or accrued during the year the following 
amounts for the benefit of employees: @   During the pension 
year ended December 31, 1960, 23 employees retired, making a total 
of 171 currently retired under the Company's pension plan. At 
December 13, 1960 the fund held by the Industrial National Bank of 
Providence, as trustee for payment of past and future service pensions 
to qualified members of the plan, totaled $2,412,616.

The basic market for textiles is growing with the expansion of 
the population that began 20 years ago. Another growth factor is increased 
consumer demand for better quality and larger quantities of fabrics 
that go with a rising standard of living.   As in many other 
industries, rising costs and intense competition, both domestic and 
foreign, have exerted increasing pressure on earnings of the textile industry 
in recent years. 

#INCREASED EFFICIENCY#

In textiles, as elsewhere, 
a major part of the solution lies in greater efficiency and 
higher productivity.   As a designer and manufacturer of textile 
production machinery, Leesona and other companies in its industry have 
sought to meet this challenge with new or improved equipment and methods 
that would increase production, yet maintain both quality and flexibility. 

#PROBLEMS OF SHIFTING STYLES#

The problem of efficient 
production in textiles is complicated by the fact that the industry serves 
large markets which shift quickly with changes of fashion in apparel 
or home decoration. Production must be adjusted accordingly, at 
minimum cost and quickly.   In addition, production machinery must 
in many cases be designed to handle with equal efficiency both natural 
fibers and the increasing number of synthetics, as well as blends. 
Following the term of service in Japan, each emissary returns for a 
brief visit to the campus to interpret his experience to the college 
community. The Carleton Service Fund provides the financial support 
for this program. 

#MUSICAL ACTIVITIES#

THE COLLEGE was one 
of the first to recognize the importance of music not only as a definite 
part of the curriculum but as a vital adjunct to campus life. Extensive 
facilities for group performance are provided by maintaining, under 
skilled direction, the Choir, the Orchestra, the Band, the Glee 
Club, and smaller ensembles of wind and string players.   All 
students are invited to participate in any of the musical organizations 
for which they qualify. Orchestra, Band, and Choir have auditions 
during the week preceding the first day of classes. The Glee Club 
is open to all students and faculty with no auditions necessary for 
membership.   In addition to the many appearances of these organizations 
throughout the college year, there are concerts by students of 
the music department, by members of the music faculty, and by visiting 
artists.   Student musical organizations are the Knights of 
Carleton and the Overtones (men's vocal groups), and the Keynotes 
(a women's singing group). These student-directed organizations include 
eight to ten members each; they perform at many campus social 
events. 

#RELIGIOUS ACTIVITIES#

FROM THE FOUNDING of the College 
those responsible for its management have planned to provide its 
students favorable conditions for personal religious development and to 
offer opportunities through the curriculum and otherwise for understanding 
the meaning and importance of religion. Courses are offered in 
ethics, the philosophy and history of religion, Christian thought and 
history, and the Bible. Carleton aims throughout its entire teaching 
program to represent a point of view and a spirit which will contribute 
to the moral and religious development of its students.   A 
COLLEGE SERVICE OF WORSHIP is held each Sunday morning at eleven 
o'clock in the Chapel. The sermons are given by the College Chaplain, 
by members of the faculty, or by guest preachers. Music is furnished 
by the Carleton College Choir.   CHAPEL SERVICES 
are held weekly. These services at which attendance is voluntary are 
led by the Chaplain, by the President of the College, by selected 
faculty members, students, and visitors. The service is brief and variety 
in forms of worship is practiced.   A SUNDAY EVENING PROGRAM 
provides theological lectures, music, drama, and films related 
to the issues of the Judeo-Christian tradition.   ATTENDANCE 
is required at the College Service of Worship <or> at the Sunday 
Evening Program <or> at any regularly organized service of public 
worship. Each semester every student must attend ten of the services 
or religious meetings. Attendance at the Chapel Service is voluntary.

RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS include the groups described 
below. The Y&M&C&A& and Y&W&C&A& at Carleton 
are connected with the corresponding national organizations and carry 
out their general purposes. Occasional meetings are held for the 
whole membership, usually with a guest speaker, while smaller discussion 
groups meet more frequently. The Associations sponsor many traditional 
campus events and provide students with opportunities to form new 
friendships, to broaden their interests, and to engage in worthwhile 
service projects.   There are other organizations representing 
several of the denominational groups. Included are the following: Baptist 
Student Movement, Canterbury Club (Episcopal), Christian 
Science Organization, Friends' Meeting for Worship, Hillel (Jewish), 
Liberal Religious Fellowship, Lutheran Student Association, 
Newman Club (Roman Catholic), Presbyterian Student Fellowship, 
United Student Fellowship (Congregational-Baptist), and Wesley 
Fellowship (Methodist).   Student religious organizations 
are co-ordinated under the Religious Activities Committee, a standing 
committee of the Carleton Student Association.   THE NORTHFIELD 
CHURCHES include the following: Alliance, Congregational-Baptist, 
Episcopal, Lutheran (Norwegian, Danish, Missouri Synod, 
and Bethel), Methodist, Moravian, Pentecostal, and Roman Catholic. 

#THEATER#

THE PURPOSE of producing plays at the College 
is three-fold: to provide the Carleton students with the best possible 
opportunity for theater-going within the limits set by the maturity 
and experience of the performers and the theatrical facilities available; 
to encourage the practice of attending the theater; and 
to develop a discriminating audience for good drama and sensitive performance.

Dramatic activity at the College is organized and carried 
on by The Carleton Players, which is to say by all students who 
are so inclined to advance these aims.   For the 1960-1961 season, 
The 
Carleton Players have announced <Blood Wedding> by Federico 
Garcia Lorca, <The Knight of the Burning Pestle> by Beaumont 
and Fletcher and <A Moon for the Misbegotten> by Eugene O'Neill, 
with a pre-season production of <The Glass Menagerie> by Tennessee 
Williams. 

#STUDENT WORKSHOP#

THIS workshop, located 
in Boliou Hall, provides facilities for students to work in ceramics, 
weaving, enameling, welding, woodworking, textile printing, printmaking, 
and lapidary. These extra-curricular activities are conducted 
under supervision of the Director of the Student Workshop. The 
workshop is open five afternoons and two evenings each week. 
A student organization, Bottega, is open to any student interested in 
increasing his understanding and appreciation of the graphic and ceramic 
arts in their historical, technical, and productive contexts. The 
group meets once a week in the Boliou Student Workshop. They are 
assisted and advised by members of the Art Department. 

#ATHLETICS# 

THE ATHLETIC PROGRAM at Carleton is considered an integral 
part of the activities of the College and operates under the same 
budgetary procedure and controls as the academic work.   The physical 
education program for men recognizes the value of participation 
in competitive sports in the development of the individual student and 
aims to give every man an opportunity to enter some form of athletic 
competition, either intercollegiate or intramural.   The same standards 
for admission, for eligibility to receive scholarships or grants-in-aid, 
and for scholastic performance at college apply to all students.

A faculty committee on athletics, responsible to the faculty 
as a whole, exercises control over the athletic program of the College. 
It concerns itself with: _1._ The policies which govern 
the program _2._ The preservation of desirable balance between 
the athletic and academic programs of the College _3._ The approval 
of athletic schedules _4._ The maintenance of Midwest Conference 
eligibility standards   Carleton is a member of the Midwest 
Collegiate Athletic Conference and abides by its eligibility rules. 
In addition to these rules, Carleton has added the following: 
_1._ A student who while in attendance at Carleton College participates 
in an athletic contest during the school year, other than that 
sponsored by the College, shall be permanently ineligible to participate 
in intercollegiate athletics at Carleton College and will also 
face permanent suspension from the institution. The school year does 
not end for any student until he has completed his last examination 
of the semester. _2._ A student to be eligible for the captaincy 
of any Carleton team must have a scholastic record of at least 1.00.

THE "~C" CLUB is composed of the men of the College 
who have won an official letter in Carleton athletics. The purpose 
of the Club is to promote better athletic teams at Carleton and to 
increase interest in them among the student body. This is done by encouraging 
the entire male student body to participate in either the intercollegiate 
or intramural sports program and by sponsoring the Carleton 
cheerleaders. _SOCCER CLUB._ The Soccer Club was organized 
by undergraduate men interested in playing soccer and promoting the sport. 
Membership consists of both beginners and experienced players. Practices 
are held regularly and the schedule of games is prepared by 
the student coach and the officers of the club. _WOMEN'S RECREATION 
ASSOCIATION._ This Association, organized in 1920, is affiliated 
with the Athletic Federation of College Women. The purpose of the 
organization is to further the interest of women students in recreational 
activities as a means of promoting physical efficiency, sportsmanship, 
and "play for play's sake". The Association is governed 
by a board made up of representatives from each of the four classes. 
Membership is open to any woman student in the College. Active groups 
sponsored by the organization include the Saddle Club, Orchesis, 
Golf Club, Tennis Club, and Dolphins. The Saddle Club, open to 
students proficient in horsemanship, presents the Annual Spring Riding 
Exhibition, and during the year it offers speakers, movies, breakfast 
rides, and trips to broaden their knowledge of the sport. Orchesis, 
for students interested in the modern dance, contributes to the 
May Fete and offers earlier in the year a modern dance demonstration. 
Tennis Club participates in a dual tennis tournament with the University 
of Minnesota each fall, and also sponsors a two-day state invitational 
tennis meet at Carleton in May. The Dolphins present a 
three-night 
water show the week of the May Fete. Under the auspices of 
the Women's Recreation Association, interclass competition is organized 
in badminton, basketball, field hockey, golf, tennis, and swimming. 
The Association participates in the winter sports carnival and 
sponsors several Play Days with St& Olaf and other near-by colleges. 
With the co-operation of the Department of Physical Education 
for Men, the Women's Recreation Association arranges mixed tournaments 
in tennis and golf in the fall and spring. Throughout the year 
there are social events, such as picnics, breakfast hikes, canoe trips, 
banquets, and indoor parties. 

#COLLEGE PUBLICATIONS#

IN ADDITION 
to the miscellaneous pamphlets and other printed matter which 
it issues, the College maintains regular publications, as follows:

<The Bulletin,> in five issues: <The Report of the 
President> in August; <The Alumni Fund Report> in September; 
the annual <Catalog> in March; an <Alumni Reunion Bulletin> 
in April; and a special <Bulletin> in June. The College 
also publishes each year <The Report of the Treasurer> and a monthly 
newsletter entitled <Carleton College Comments>. In co-operation 
with the Alumni Association of Carleton College, an alumni magazine, 
<The Voice of the Carleton Alumni,> is edited and mailed 
seven times a year by the College's Publications Office and the 
Alumni Office. At intervals an alumni directory is issued. 
These publications may be secured as follows: The annual <Catalog> 
from the Director of Admissions and other issues from the Publications 
Office.   In January, 1960, the first issue of <The 
Carleton Miscellany,> a quarterly literary magazine, was published 
by the College. The magazine, edited by members of the Carleton Department 
of English, includes contributions by authors from both within 
and beyond the Carleton community. 

#STUDENT PUBLICATIONS#

<The 
Carletonian,> the college newspaper, is edited by students and published 
by the College under the supervision of the Publications Board. 
(See page 100.) It is issued weekly throughout the college year. 
The Publications Board holds annual competitive examinations for 
places on the editorial and business staffs. The editor, sports editor, 
and student business manager are chosen in December, the new staff 
assuming responsibility for the paper at the beginning of the second 
semester. The paper affords excellent practice for students interested 
in the field of journalism.   <The Algol,> the college annual, 
is published in the fall of each year. <The Algol> serves as a 
record of campus organizations and student activities during the year. 
The Publications Board receives applications for the positions of 
editor and business manager and makes the appointments in the spring 
previous to the year of publication. Members of <The Algol> staff 
are nominated by the editor and business manager and appointed by the 
Publications Board.   <Manuscript,> a quarterly literary magazine, 
is published by the students of the College. It is the purpose 
of this magazine to serve as an outlet for student creative writing. 
The editor and business manager of <Manuscript> are appointed by 
the Publications Board. 

#CAMPUS BROADCASTING STATION#

A LOW-POWER, 
"carrier-current" broadcasting station, ~KARL, heard 
only in the campus dormitories, is owned and operated by the students 
to provide an outlet for student dramatic, musical, literary, technical, 
and other talents, and to furnish information, music, and entertainment 
for campus listeners. Over a hundred students participate in 
the planning and production of the daily program schedule. ~KARL 
provides experience for students who wish to pursue careers in radio. 

#STUDENT GOVERNMENT#

THE CARLETON STUDENT ASSOCIATION includes 
all students in college and is intended "to work for the betterment 
of Carleton College by providing student government and student 
participation with the college administration in the formulation and execution 
of policies which pertain to student life and activities".

THE CARLETON SOCIAL CO-OPERATIVE is a standing committee 
of the Carleton Student Association. Week-end activities for the entire 
campus are planned by the Co-op Board.

In recent months, much attention has been given to the probable 
extent of the current downtrend in business and economists are somewhat 
divided as to the outlook for the near future. And yet, despite some 
disappointment with the performance of this first year of the new 
decade, 1960 has been a good year in many ways, with many overall measures 
of business having reached new peaks for the year as a whole. The 
shift in sentiment from excessive optimism early in the year to the 
present mood of caution has probably been a good thing, in that it has 
prevented the accumulation of the burdensome inventories that have characterized 
many previous swings in the business cycle. This caution 
has been particularly noticeable in a tendency of retailers and distributors 
to shift the inventory burden back on the supplier, and the fact 
stocks at retail are low in many lines has escaped attention because 
of the presence of higher stocks at the manufacturing level.   In 
the electronics industry, this tendency is well illustrated by inventories 
of ~TV sets. Factory stocks in recent months have been the 
highest they have been in three years, while those at retail are below 
1959. The total value of our industry's shipments, at factory prices, 
increased from $9.2 billion in 1959 to approximately $10.1 billion 
as a result of increases in all of the major segments of our business- 
home entertainment, military, industrial, and replacement. I believe 
a further gain is in prospect for 1961. 

#HOME ENTERTAINMENT SALES 
UP#

Reflecting the largest percentage of high-end sets such as 
consoles and combinations since 1953, dollar value of home entertainment 
electronics in 1960 was about $1.9 billion, compared to $1.7 billion 
in 1959. Sales of ~TV sets at retail ran ahead of the like months 
of 1959 through July; set production (excluding those destined for 
the export market) also ran ahead in the early months, but was curtailed 
after the usual vacation shutdowns in the face of growing evidence 
that some of the early production plans had been overly optimistic. 
For the year as a whole, retail sales of ~TV sets probably came 
to 5.8 million against 5.7 million in 1959; however, production came 
to only 5.6 million compared to 6.2 million.   In contrast to the 
lower turnout of ~TV, total radio production increased from 15.4 
million sets to 16.7 million (excluding export). Both home and auto 
radios were in excellent demand, with retail sales of home sets ahead 
of 1959 in every month of the first eleven; sales and production of 
home sets were about equal at 10.4 million units. Auto set production 
came to about 6.3 million compared to 5.6 million in 1959. Separate 
phonographs also had a good year, reflecting the growing popularity of 
stereo 
sound and the same tendency on the part of the consumer to upgrade 
that characterized the radio-~TV market.   The outlook 
for entertainment electronics in 1961 is certainly far from clear at present, 
but recent surveys have shown a desire on the part of consumers 
to step up their buying plans for durable goods. I would expect that 
sales at retail in the first half of 1961 might be below 1960 by some 
10-15% but that second-half levels should show a favorable comparison, 
with a possibility of quite strong demand late in the year if business 
conditions recover as some recent forecasts suggest they will. I 
look for ~TV sales and production to be approximately equal at 5.7 
million sets for the year, but I look for some decline in radios from 
the high rate in 1961 to more nearly the 1959 level of 15.0-15.5 million 
sets. I therefore believe it is realistic to assume a modest drop 
in the total value of home entertainment electronics to about $1.8 
million, slightly below 1960, but above 1959. 

#MILITARY ELECTRONICS 
TO GROW#

1960 witnessed another substantial increase in our industry's 
shipments of military electronics, which totalled about $5.4 billion 
compared to $4.9 billion in 1959. It is interesting to note that 
the present level of military electronics procurement is greater than 
the industry's total sales to all markets in 1950-1953, which were good 
years for our industry with television enjoying its initial period 
of rapid consumer acceptance. It has been correctly pointed out by well-informed 
people in the industry that it is probably unrealistic to 
expect a continuation of the yearly growth of 15% or better that characterized 
the decade of the 1950's, and that our military markets 
may be entering upon a new phase in which procurement of multiple weapons 
systems will give way to concentration of still undeveloped areas 
of our defense capability. While this may well be true in general, I 
believe it is also important to keep in mind that some recent developments 
suggest that over the next year or so military electronics may be 
one of the most strongly growing areas in an economy which is not expanding 
rapidly in other directions.   Among the items scheduled 
for acceleration in the near future are the POLARIS and ~B70 
programs, strengthening of the airborne alert system of the Strategic 
Air Command, and improved battlefield surveillance systems. Research 
and development expenditures connected with the reconnaissance satellite 
SAMOS and the future development of ballistic missile 
defense systems such as NIKE-ZEUS are expected to increase substantially. 
Research, development test and evaluation funds, devoted 
to missiles in 1960 were 3 to 4 times as large as those devoted to aircraft, 
and actual missile procurement is expected to exceed aircraft procurement 
by 1963. Still later, the realm of space technology will show 
substantial gains; it has been estimated that spending by the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration will rise from less than 
$500 million in fiscal 1960 to more than $2 billion by 1967, and that 
the electronic industry's share of these expenditures will be closer 
to 50% than the current 20%.   The stepped up defense procurement 
called for in the 1961 Budget has already begun to make itself 
felt in an upturn in orders for military electronic equipment and 
the components that go into it, and it has been suggested that an additional 
$2 billion increase in total defense spending may be requested 
for fiscal 1962. Although the impact of these increases on our industry's 
shipments will be gradual, on balance I look for another good 
increase in shipments in the coming year, to at least $6 billion. 

#INDUSTRIAL 
ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT#

Paced by the continuing rapid growth 
of electronic data processing, sales of industrial and commercial electronic 
equipment totalled $1.8 billion compared to $1.6 billion in 1959. 
The market for computers and other data-handling continues to expand 
at the rate of about 30% annually, reaching some $450 million in 
1960. Informed estimates look for this market to approximately quadruple 
by the late 1960's, under the stimulus of new applications in 
the fields of banking and retailing, industrial process control, and information 
storage and retrieval. In the industrial field, prospects 
for higher expenditures on electronic testing and measuring equipment 
are also quite bright. For the near term, however, it must be realized 
that the industrial and commercial market is somewhat more sensitive 
to general business conditions than is the military market, and for this 
reason I would expect that any gain in 1961 may be somewhat smaller 
than those of recent years; sales should slightly exceed 1960, however, 
and reach $1.9 billion. 

#REPLACEMENT PARTS#

In addition to 
the three major original equipment segments of the electronics business, 
the steady growth in the market for replacement parts continues 
year by year. This is now a $1.0 billion business, up from $0.9 billion 
in 1959, and should reach $1.1 billion in 1961.   The markets 
for electronic parts in 1960 have reflected the changing patterns of 
the various end equipment segments of the industry. Demand for parts 
for home entertainment was strong in the first half, but purchases were 
cut back to lower levels during the fall as set manufacturers reduced 
their own operating rates. In the military field, incoming orders turned 
down early in the year, and remained rather slow until late fall 
when the upturn in procurement of equipment began to make itself felt 
in rising orders for components.   Sales of transistors in 1960 
exceeded $300 million, compared to $222 million in 1959 despite substantial 
price reductions in virtually all types. Production totalled about 
123 million units against 82 million in 1959, and I look for a further 
gain to 188 million units worth approximately $380 million in 1961. 
Sales of passive components, such as capacitors and resistors, although 
not growing as fast as those of semi-conductors were ahead of 
1959 this year, and should increase again in 1961.   In sum, I 
look for another good year for the electronics industry in 1961, with 
total sales increasing about 7% to $10.8 billion, despite the uncertainties 
in the business outlook generally. As I have indicated above, 
I base this feeling on a belief that current weakness in the market 
for consumer durable goods may continue through the early months of 
the year, but will give way to a sufficiently strong recovery later on 
to bring the full-year figures close to those of 1960; on prospects 
for continued increases in defense spending; and on continued growth 
in the applications of electronics to the complex problems of manufacturing 
and trade in the expanding but competitive economy of the 1960's.

The appointment of Gilbert B& Devey as General Manager 
of VecTrol Engineering, Inc&, of Stamford, Connecticut, a leading 
manufacturer of thyratron and silicon controlled rectifier electrical 
controls, has been announced by David B& Peck, Vice President, 
Special Products.   Mr& Devey will be responsible for the 
commercial expansion of VecTrol's line of electronic and electrical 
power control components as furnished to end equipment manufacturers, 
working closely with Walter J& Brown, President and Director 
of Engineering of the recently acquired Sprague subsidiary. Mr& 
Brown will at the same time undertake expansion of VecTrol's custom 
design program for electronic control users with a greatly increased 
engineering staff.   Mr& Devey's new responsibilities are 
in addition to those of his present post as marketing manager of 
Sprague's Special Products Group, which manufactures a wide line 
of digital electronic components, packaged component assemblies, and 
high temperature magnet wires.   Mr& Devey first came to Sprague 
in 1953 as a Product Specialist in the Field Engineering Department, 
coming from the Office of Naval Research in Washington, D& 
C&, where he was an electronic scientist engaged in undersea warfare 
studies. During World War /2,, he was a lieutenant commander 
in the United States Navy. Mr& Devey is a graduate of the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, and attended the United States 
Naval Academy Post-Graduate School specializing in electronic 
engineering. He was named Product Manager of the Special Products 
Division of Sprague when it was founded in 1958, and was later promoted 
to his present post. Mr& Devey is a member of the Institute 
of Radio Engineers, and is chairman of the Electronic Industries Association 
Committee ~P-9 on Printed and Modular Components.

Mr& Brown, well-known, English-born inventor, prior to founding 
VecTrol was at various times section leader in radio research at 
Metropolitan Vickers Electrical Co&, Ltd&; chief engineer 
of the radio set division of Electric and Musical Industries, Ltd&, 
the largest electronic equipment manufacturer in Great Britain; 
director of engineering at Philco of Great Britain, Ltd&, and 
vice president in charge of production and assistant to the president 
at The Brush Development Co&, Cleveland, Ohio. He has a Bachelor 
of Science from the University of Manchester, England. Mr& 
Brown presently has over 130 patents to his credit dating back to 1923. 
He is a fellow of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 
and a senior member of the Institute of Radio Engineers. He 
is a member of the Institution of Electrical Engineers, London, a 
registered professional engineer in Connecticut and Ohio, and a chartered 
electrical engineer in Great Britain.

The promotion of Robert E& Swift to the position of Assistant 
Manager of the Interference Control Field Service Department 
was announced early in December by Frederick S& Scarborough, 
Manager of Interference Control Field Service. The appointment was 
made in a move to expand the engineering services offered to the designers 
of electronic systems through assistance in electro-magnetic compatability 
problems. 
Between meetings he helps the president keep track of delegated matters. 
Since these duties fit neatly with those of the proposed presidential 
aide, one person, with adequate staff assistance, could fill both 
jobs. ##

<Since faculty see themselves as self-employed professionals 
rather than as employees, enthusiasm in a common enterprise is 
proportionate to the sense of ownership they have in it by virtue of sharing 
in the decisions that govern its course>.   The faculty 
believes that broad autonomy is necessary to preserve its freedom in teaching 
and scholarship. The president expects faculty members to remember, 
in exercising their autonomy, that they share no collective responsibility 
for the university's income nor are they personally accountable 
for top-level decisions. He may welcome their appropriate participation 
in the determination of high policy, but he has a right to 
expect, in return, that they will leave administrative matters to the 
administration.   How well do faculty members govern themselves? 
There is little evidence that they are giving any systematic thought 
to a general theory of the optimum scope and nature of their part in 
government. They sometimes pay more attention to their rights than 
to their own internal problems of government. They, too, need to learn 
to delegate. Letting the administration take details off their hands 
would give them more time to inform themselves about education as a 
whole, an area that would benefit by more faculty attention.   Although 
faculties insist on governing themselves, they grant little prestige 
to a member who actively participates in college or university 
government. There are, nevertheless, several things that the president 
can do to stimulate participation and to enhance the prestige of those 
who are willing to exercise their privilege. He can, for example, 
present significant university-wide issues to the senate. He can encourage 
quality in faculty committee work in various ways: by seeing to 
it that the membership of each committee represents the thoughtful as 
well as the action-oriented faculty; by making certain that no faculty 
member has too many committee assignments; by assuring good liaison 
between the committees and the administration; by minimizing the 
number of committees.   Despite the many avenues for the exchange 
of ideas between faculty and administration, complaints of a lack 
of communication persist. The cause is as often neglect as hesitance 
to disclose. A busy president, conversant with a problem and its ramifications 
and beset by pressures to meet deadlines, tends naturally to 
assume that others must be as familiar with a problem as he is. The 
need for interchange and understanding makes vital the full use of all 
methods of consultation.   To increase faculty influence and decrease 
tension, many presidents have established a standing advisory 
committee with which they can discuss problems frankly.   The president 
has little influence in day-by-day curricular changes, but if 
he looks ahead two, three, or five years to anticipate issues and throw 
out challenging ideas, he can open the way for innovation, and he can 
also have a great deal to say as to what path it will take. Success 
will require tact, sensitivity to faculty prerogatives, patience, and 
persistence. ##

<The critical task for every president and his 
academic administrative staff is to assure that the college or university 
continually rebuilds and regenerates itself so that its performance 
will match changing social demands **h great professors do not automatically 
reproduce themselves>.   Deans can form an important bridge 
between the president and the faculty. They serve not only as spokesmen 
for their areas, but they also contribute to top-level decision 
making. The president who appoints strong men who have an all-college 
or university point of view and a talent and respect for administration 
can count on useful assistance.   Faculty members depend on 
their department chairmen to promote their interests with the administration. 
The administration at the same time, looks to the chairmen 
for strategic aid in building stronger departments. One way that this 
can be done, other than by hiring new high-priced professors, is by constantly 
encouraging the department members to raise their standards 
of performance.   The quality of a president's leadership is 
measured first by his success in building up the faculty. By supporting 
the efforts of the many faculty members who are working to attain ever 
higher standards, the president can encourage faculty leadership. 
Indirectly he can best help them by insuring that rigorous criteria for 
appointment and promotion are clearly set forth and adhered to.

The academic dean should take a direct, long-term interest in faculty 
development. An alert dean will confer all through the year on personnel 
needs, plans for the future, qualifications of those on the job, 
and bright prospects elsewhere.   For the maintenance of a long-term 
program, the departments, and particularly their chairmen, are 
strategic. They evaluate and nominate candidates for appointment and 
promotion. To provide an independent judgment for the president, the 
academic dean also investigates candidates thoroughly.   At some 
colleges and universities, a faculty committee reviews and reports 
to the administration on the qualifications of candidates. Some faculty 
members and many administrators oppose faculty review groups because 
they either repeat department's actions or act <pro forma>. They 
can be effective, however, if their members set high standards for candidates 
and devote substantial time to the work. At one university, 
the president cites the faculty review committee as "a valued partner 
of the administration in guarding and promoting the quality of the 
faculty".   Before the president recommends a candidate to the 
trustees, the administration collects the views of colleagues in the 
same field of knowledge on campus and elsewhere. The president or dean 
reads some of his publications to form the truest possible evaluation 
of the quality of his mind. No good way to evaluate teaching ability 
has yet been discovered, although some institutions use inventory sheets 
for a list of criteria. To avoid passing over quiet, unaggressive 
teachers as well as to decide whether others merit promotion, review 
of the right of faculty members to promotion or salary increases should 
be made periodically whether or not they have been recommended for 
advancement by their departments.   There are certain aspects of 
personnel development in which a president must involve himself directly. 
He should personally consider the potential of a faculty member 
proposed for tenure, to guard against the mistake of making this profoundly 
serious commitment turn solely upon the man's former achievements. 
No one can be as effective as the president in inspiring older 
men to welcome imaginative new teachers whose philosophy or approach to 
their specialties is quite different. In particular, the president 
may have to summon all his oratorical powers to persuade department members 
to accept an outstanding man above the normal salary scale. On 
those rare occasions when a faculty member on tenure is not meeting the 
standards of the institution, the president must also bear the ultimate 
burden of decision and action. ##

<A true university, like most 
successful marriages, is a unity of diversities **h Without forcing 
all components into a single pattern, the preparation of a master plan 
is an opportunity to consider interrelation of knowledge at its highest 
level, which a university- in contrast to a multiversity- should 
stand for>.   Recently colleges and universities have begun 
to translate their educational philosophy into institution-wide goals. 
Each year a few more institutions are deciding such questions as: 
Shall we require a liberal education built around a humanities core 
for all undergraduates? Or shall we permit early specialization in 
scientific and technological subjects? In the first instance, adequate 
appropriate reading materials and library accommodations must be 
planned. In the second, more shops, laboratories, and staff will be required.

For the president, a master plan looking ahead five years 
(the maximum reach for sound forecasting), offers several practical 
advantages. Trustees, faculty, and administration can consider the 
consequences of decisions before they are made, instead of afterwards. 
Physical plant and equipment can be efficiently developed. Proposed 
new programs can be examined for appropriateness to goals and for present 
and future financial fitness. More than one president has found 
that a long-range plan helps him to attract major gifts. It inspires 
confidence in his institution's determination to establish goals and 
to achieve them.   Before deciding where it is going, however, 
a college 
or university must know where it is. The first step is a comprehensive 
self study made by faculty, by outside consultants, or by a combination 
of the two. It should sternly appraise curricula, faculty, organization, 
buildings, faculty work loads, and potential for growth in 
stature and size.   Implementation of the master plan will inevitably 
be uneven. Some departments will attack their new goals enthusiastically; 
others may drag their feet. Funds may be readily donated 
for some purposes but not others. A plan must therefore be brought 
up to date periodically, possibly with the assistance of a permanent 
planning officer.   To provide the continuous flow of information 
basic to administrative decisions, a number of institutions have established 
offices of institutional research. Some offices have very broad 
responsibilities, touching on almost all aspects of a university's 
instructional program. Their duties include evaluation of the information 
collected and preparation of recommendations. More often, these 
offices are restricted to the gathering of empirical data. ## 
**h <the president's opportunity for influencing education reaches 
its highest point, as he decides which projects he will cut back, which 
he will advance by increased allowances or new fund-raising efforts>.

No matter how high the hopes and dreams of educators, budget 
making adjusts them to the cold realities of dollars and cents. When 
the budget goes to trustees for approval it is the president's budget, 
to which his faith and credit are committed; its principal features 
should be a product of his most considered judgment. He cannot, 
of course, examine each proposal from scratch. He reviews and shapes 
the work of others to mold a single joint product that will best promote 
the aims of the institution.   Budgeting must be flexible to 
allow adaptation to the rapid changes in scientific and technological 
scholarship. Because scientific instruction and research involve increasingly 
large sums of money, an institution should choose its fields 
of prominence. Otherwise it will be headed for bankruptcy, at worst, 
and at best towards starvation of other less dramatic but socially and 
culturally indispensable branches of learning. In the national interest 
even the affluent universities must consider some division of labor 
among them to replace their present ambitions to keep up with the Joneses 
in all branches. ##

<Supporting activities- business 
management, public relations, fund-raising- offer presidents one of 
their best chances to buy freedom for attention to education **h Here 
the reasonable mastery of the elements of administration can do much 
to free a president for his primary role>.   In the areas that 
do 
not relate directly to the educational program, expert subordinates will 
serve the college or university better than close presidential attention. 
The president should find strong subordinates and delegate the 
widest discretion to them. Higher education cannot compete with the 
salary scales of the business world, but an educational institution can 
offer many potent intangible attractions to members of the business 
community that will offset the differences in income.   Just as 
the entire faculty should know the president's educational philosophy 
and objectives, so should non-academic officers. They will better 
understand the relationship of their activities to the academic program 
and they will be able to explain their actions to faculty in terms of 
mutual goals.   A president is frequently besieged to serve in 
non-academic civic and governmental capacities, to make speeches to lay 
groups, and to make numerous ceremonial appearances on and off campus. 
Since he can neither accept nor reject them all, he must be governed 
by the time and energy available for his prime professional obligations. 
Declinations and substitutions are better received when he explains 
why his obligations to his institution preclude his acceptance.

By sharing the load of important speeches with his colleagues, 
the president can develop a cadre of able spokesmen who will help to 
create a public perception of the university as an institution, something 
more than the lengthened shadow of one man. 

#1. INTRODUCTION#

IT HAS recently become practical to use the 
radio emission of the moon and planets as a new source of information 
about these bodies and their atmospheres. The results of present observations 
of the thermal radio emission of the moon are consistent with 
the very low thermal conductivity of the surface layer which was derived 
from the variation in the infrared emission during eclipses (e&g&, 
Garstung, 1958). When sufficiently accurate and complete measurements 
are available, it will be possible to set limits on the thermal 
and electrical characteristics of the surface and subsurface materials 
of the moon.   Observations of the radio emission of a planet 
which has an extensive atmosphere will probe the atmosphere to a greater 
extent than those using shorter wave lengths and should in some cases 
give otherwise unobtainable information about the characteristics 
of the solid surface. Radio observations of Venus and Jupiter have 
already supplied unexpected experimental data on the physical conditions 
of these planets. The observed intensity of the radio emission of 
Venus is much higher than the expected thermal intensity, although the 
spectrum indicated by measurements at wave lengths near 3 ~cm and 
1o ~cm is like that of a black body at about 6oo` ~K. This result 
suggests a very high temperature at the solid surface of the planet, 
although there is the possibility that the observed radiation may be 
a combination of both thermal and non-thermal components and that the 
observed spectrum is that of a black body merely by coincidence. For 
the case of Jupiter, the radio emission spectrum is definitely not like 
the spectrum of a black-body radiator, and it seems very likely that 
the radiation reaching the earth is a combination of thermal radiation 
from the atmosphere and non-thermal components.   Of the remaining 
planets, only Mars and Saturn have been observed as radio sources, 
and not very much information is available. Mars has been observed 
twice at about 3-~cm wave length, and the intensity of the observed 
radiation is in reasonable agreement with the thermal radiation which 
might be predicted on the basis of the known temperature of Mars. 
The low intensity of the radiation from Saturn has limited observations, 
but again the measured radiation seems to be consistent with a thermal 
origin. No attempts to measure the radio emission of the remaining 
planets have been reported, and, because of their distances, small 
diameters, or low temperatures, the thermal radiation at radio wave lengths 
reaching the earth from these sources is expected to be of very 
low intensity. In spite of this, the very large radio reflectors and 
improved amplifying techniques which are now becoming available should 
make it possible to observe the radio emission of most of the planets 
in a few years.   The study of the radio emission of the moon 
and planets began with the detection of the thermal radiation of the moon 
at 1.25-~cm wave length by Dicke and Beringer (1946). This was 
followed by a comprehensive series of observations of the 1.25-~cm 
emission of the moon over three lunar cycles by Piddington and Minnett 
(1949). They deduced from their measurements that the radio emission 
from the whole disk of the moon varied during a lunation in a roughly 
sinusoidal fashion; that the amplitude of the variation was considerably 
less than the amplitude of the variation in the infrared emission 
as measured by Pettit and Nicholson (1930) and Pettit (1935); 
and that the maximum of the radio emission came about 3-1/2 days after 
Full 
Moon, which is again in contrast to the infrared emission, which reaches 
its maximum at Full Moon. Piddington and Minnett explained 
their observations by pointing out that rocklike materials which are likely 
to make up the surface of the moon would be partially transparent 
to radio waves, although opaque to infrared radiation. The infrared 
emission could then be assumed to originate at the surface of the moon, 
while the radio emission originates at some depth beneath the surface, 
where the temperature variation due to solar radiation is reduced 
in amplitude and shifted in phase. Since the absorption of radio waves 
in rocklike material varies with wave length, it should be possible 
to sample the temperature variation at different depths beneath the surface 
and possibly detect changes in the structure or composition of the 
lunar surface material.   The radio emission of a planet was 
first detected in 1955, when Burke and Franklin (1955) identified the 
origin of interference-like radio noise on their records at about 15 
meters wave length as emission from Jupiter. This sporadic type of 
planetary radiation is discussed by Burke (chap& 13) and Gallet (chap& 
14). Steady radiation which was presumably of thermal origin was 
observed from Venus at 3.15 and 9.4 ~cm, and from Mars and Jupiter 
at 3.15 ~cm in 1956 (Mayer, McCullough, and Sloanaker, 1958<a, 
b, c>), and from Saturn at 3.75 ~cm in 1957 (Drake and Ewen, 
1958). In the relatively short time since these early observations, 
Venus has been observed at additional wave lengths in the range from 
0.8 to 10.2 ~cm, and Jupiter has been observed over the wave-length 
range from 3.03 to 68 ~cm.   The observable characteristics of 
planetary radio radiation are the intensity, the polarization, and the 
direction of arrival of the waves. The maximum angular diameter of 
any planetary disk as observed from the earth is about 1 minute of arc. 
This is much smaller than the highest resolution of even the very 
large reflectors now under construction, and consequently the radio emission 
of different regions of the disk cannot be resolved. It should 
be possible, however, to put useful limits on the diameters of the radio 
sources by observing with large reflectors or with interferometers. 
Measurements of polarization are presently limited by apparatus sensitivity 
and will remain difficult because of the low intensity of the 
planetary radiation at the earth. There have been few measurements specifically 
for the determination of the polarization of planetary radiation. 
The measurements made with the ~NRL 50-foot reflector, 
which is altitude-azimuth-mounted, would have shown a systematic change 
with local hour angle in the measured intensities of Venus and Jupiter 
if a substantial part of the radiation had been linearly polarized. 
Recent interferometer measurements (Radhakrishnan and Roberts, 
1960) have shown the 960-~Mc emission of Jupiter to be partially 
polarized 
and to originate in a region of larger diameter than the visible 
disk. Other than this very significant result, most of the information 
now available about the radio emission of the planets is restricted 
to the intensity of the radiation.   The concept of apparent 
black-body temperature is used to describe the radiation received from 
the moon and the planets. The received radiation is compared with the 
radiation from a hypothetical black body which subtends the same solid 
angle as the visible disk of the planet. The <apparent black-body 
disk temperature> is the temperature which must be assumed for the 
black body in order that the intensity of its radiation should equal that 
of the observed radiation. The use of this concept does not specify 
the origin of the radiation, and only if the planet really radiates 
as a black body, will the apparent black-body temperature correspond 
to the physical temperature of the emitting material.   The radio 
radiation of the sun which is reflected from the moon and planets should 
be negligible compared with their thermal emission at centimeter 
wave lengths, except possibly at times of exceptional outbursts of solar 
radio noise. The quiescent level of centimeter wave-length solar radiation 
would increase the average disk brightness temperature by less 
than 1` ~K. At meter wave lengths and increase of the order of 
10` ~K in the average disk temperatures of the nearer planets would 
be expected. Therefore, neglecting the extreme outbursts, reflected 
solar radiation is not expected to cause sizable errors in the measurements 
of planetary radiation in the centimeter- and decimeter-wave-length 
range. 

#2. THE MOON#

_2.1 OBSERVATIONS_ Radio observations 
of the moon have been made over the range of wave lengths from 4.3 ~mm 
to 75 ~cm, and the results are summarized in Table 1. Observations 
have also been made at 1.5 ~mm using optical techniques (Sinton, 
1955, 1956,; see also chap& 11). Not all the observers have used 
the same procedures or made the same assumptions about the lunar brightness 
distribution when reducing the data, and this, together with 
differences in the methods of calibrating the antennae and receivers, 
must account for much of the disagreement in the measured radio brightness 
temperatures.   In the observations at 4.3 ~mm (Coates, 
1959<a>), the diameter of the antenna beam, 6'.7, was small enough 
to allow resolution of some of the larger features of the lunar surface, 
and contour diagrams have been made of the lunar brightness distribution 
at three lunar phases. These observations indicate that the lunar 
maria heat up more rapidly and also cool off more rapidly than do 
the mountainous regions. Mare Imbrium seems to be an exception and 
remains cooler than the regions which surround it. These contour diagrams 
also suggest a rather rapid falloff in the radio brightness with 
latitude.   Very recently, observations have been made at 8-~mm 
wave length with a reflector 22 meters in diameter with a resultant 
beam width of only about 2' (Amenitskii, Noskova, and Salomonovich, 
1960). The constant-temperature contours are much smoother than those 
observed at 4.3 ~mm by Coates (1959<a>), and apparently the emission 
at 8 ~mm is not nearly so sensitive to differences in surface 
features. Such high-resolution observations as these are needed at several 
wave lengths in order that the radio emission of the moon can 
be properly 
interpreted.   The observations of Mayer, McCullough, 
and Sloanaker at 3.15 ~cm and of Sloanaker at 10.3 ~cm have not 
previously 
been published and will be briefly described. Measurements 
at 3.15 ~cm were obtained on 11 days spread over the interval May 3 
to June 19, 1956, using the 50-foot reflector at the U& S& Naval 
Research Laboratory in Washington. The half-intensity diameter 
of the antenna beam was about 9', and the angle subtended by the moon 
included the entire main beam and part of the first side lobes. The 
antenna patterns and the power gain at the peak of the beam were both 
measured (Mayer, McCullough, and Sloanaker, 1958<b>), so that 
the 
absolute power sensitivity of the antenna beam over the solid angle 
of the moon was known. The ratio of the measured antenna temperature 
change during a drift scan across the moon to the average brightness temperature 
of the moon over the antenna beam (assuming that the brightness 
temperature of the sky is negligible) was found, by graphical integration 
of the antenna directivity diagram, to be 0.85. The measured 
brightness temperature is a good approximation to the brightness temperature 
at the <center of the lunar disk> because of the narrow antenna 
beam and because the temperature distribution over the central portion 
of the moon's disk is nearly uniform. The result of the observations 
is (in ` ~K) **f where the phase angle, |q<t>, is measured 
in degrees from new moon and the probable errors include absolute 
as well as relative errors. This result is plotted along with the 8.6-~mm 
observations of Gibson (1958) in figure 1, <a>. The variation 
in the 3-~cm emission of the moon during a lunation is very much 
less than the variation in the 8.6-~mm emission, as would be expected 
from the explanation of Piddington and Minnett (1949). In the discussion 
which follows, the time average of the radio emission will be 
referred to as the <constant component>, and the superimposed periodic 
variation will be called the <variable component>.   The 10.3-~cm 
observation of Sloanaker was made on May 20, 1958, using the 
84-foot reflector at the Maryland Point Observatory of the U& 
S& Naval Research Laboratory. The age of the moon was about 2 
days. The half-intensity diameter of the main lobe of the antenna was 
about 18'.5, and the brightness temperature was reduced by assuming 
a Gaussian shape for the antenna beam and a uniformly bright disk for 
the moon. 

#ABSTRACT#

Experiments were made on an electric arc applying a porous 
graphite anode cooled by a transpiring gas (Argon). Thus, the 
energy transferred from the arc to the anode was partly fed back into 
the arc. It was shown that by proper anode design the net energy loss 
of the arc to the anode could be reduced to approximately 15% of the 
total arc energy A detailed energy balance of the anode was established. 
The anode ablation could be reduced to a negligible amount. The dependence 
of the arc voltage upon the mass flow velocity of the transpirating 
gas was investigated for various arc lengths and currents between 
100 ~Amp and 200 ~Amp. Qualitative observations were made and 
high-speed motion pictures were taken to study flow phenomena in the 
arc at various mass flow velocities. 

#INTRODUCTION#

The high heat 
fluxes existing at the electrode surfaces of electric arcs necessitate 
extensive cooling to prevent electrode ablation. The cooling requirements 
are particularly severe at the anode. In free burning electric 
arcs, for instance, approximately 90% of the total arc power is transferred 
to the anode giving rise to local heat fluxes in excess of 
**f as measured by the authors- the exact value depending on the arc 
atmosphere. In plasma generators as currently commercially available 
for industrial use or as high temperature research tools often more than 
50% of the total energy input is being transferred to the co0ling 
medium of the anode.   The higher heat transfer rates at the anode 
compared with those at the cathode can be explained by the physical 
phenomena occurring in free burning arcs. In plasma generators the 
superimposed forced convection may modify the picture somewhat. The heat 
transfer to the anode is due to the following effects: 1. Heat 
of condensation (work function) plus kinetic energy of the electrons impinging 
on the anode. This energy transfer depends on the current, the 
