
Use this section to plan now to make the most of your vacation 
in photogenic America. 

#THE NORTHEAST#

BIRTHPLACE of the 
nation, the Northeast offers historic battlefields; lovely old villages 
and a rugged seashore among its many worthwhile sights. The rolling 
farms of Maryland, the peerless metropolis of New York City, 
the verdant mountains of Vermont can all be included in your Northeast 
vacation.   By automobile from New York, for example, you can 
take a one or two-day tour to Annapolis, Maryland to see the colonial 
homes and the U&S& Naval Academy (where you can shoot the 
dress parade on Wednesdays); to Washington, D&C&, for an eye-filling 
tour of the city; or to Lancaster, Pa&, the center of 
the Pennsylvania Dutch country; Philadelphia with its historic buildings 
and nearby Valley Forge; to West Point, N&Y&, the 
famous military academy in a beautiful setting on the Hudson River.

New England deserves as much of your vacation time as you can 
afford with such areas as Cape Cod providing wonderful beaches, artists' 
colonies and quaint townships. From here you can easily include 
a side trip to the old whaling port of Nantucket, Massachusetts, 
which looks just as it must have two centuries ago.   At Sturbridge 
Village, Massachusetts, you'll find a completely-restored New 
England town. North to Acadia National Park, Maine, with views 
of a rockbound coast and dark, magnificent forests.   One of the 
most exciting ways to end a Northeast vacation would be with a week 
in New York City. Return through New England, stopping for a visit 
to Lake Champlain where you can take a boat ride and go to Ethan 
Allen Park. There you'll witness a view which includes the Adirondack 
Mts& and the Winooski River.   Now you're ready for 
a whirlwind sightseeing tour of America's most exciting city. The 
skyline, the bridges, Broadway, and the Staten Island ferry are 
only a few of the spots to put on your "must" list for New York 
City. 

#PHOTOGRAPHING IN THE NORTHEAST#

Some tips for shooting in 
Northeastern locales: In New York City don't miss coverage 
of the United Nations. These striking, modernistic buildings on the 
East River are open to the public and every weekday guided tours are 
available. Pictures can be taken in the public areas and when on tours. 
However, the use of tripods is not allowed. Photos of Conference 
Rooms and the General Assembly Hall can be made when these rooms 
are not being used for meetings. Flash is allowed, subject to above 
restrictions.   Around New England, you'll no doubt want a 
color shot of one of the picturesque lighthouses. Be careful here not 
to overexpose this subject since they are extremely bright and 
light-reflecting. 
In color, 1/50th of a second between **f and **f will do for 
bright, frontal sunlight. 

#THE SOUTH#

THE SOUTHERN United 
States, extending from Florida in the east to Texas in the west, 
still maintains its unique flavor of gracious living and historical elegance. 
It encompasses in its expanse areas where the natural beauty 
encourages a vacation of quiet contemplation, on the one hand, to places 
where entertainment and spectacles of all sorts have been provided 
for the tourist with camera.   Of special interest this anniversary 
year of the war between the states are the many Civil War battlefields 
where, likely as not, you'll catch some memorial re-enactments. 
Among the locales to visit are Shiloh, Tennessee; Lookout Mountain, 
Tennessee; Vicksburg, Mississippi; Richmond, Virginia; 
Petersburg, Virginia, and Fredericksburg, Virginia.   Florida 
provides tropical scenes unequalled in the United States. At 
Cypress Gardens special bleachers are set up for photographers at water-ski 
shows and lovely models pose for pictures in garden settings. 
Silver Springs features glass-bottom boat rides and in Everglades National 
Park there are opportunities to photograph rare wildlife. Miami 
Beach and surroundings feature fabulous "hotel row", palm-studded 
beaches plus the Miami Seaquarium and Parrot Jungle. 
One of the most delightful spots in a southern tour is the city of New 
Orleans. The famous old French and Spanish buildings with their 
elaborate wrought iron balconies and the narrow streets of the Latin 
Quarter present an Old World scene.   For restoration of early 
American life the places to visit are Williamsburg, Jamestown and 
Yorktown, Virginia. Another Virginia sight and a photographic adventure 
are the Luray Caverns, lit by photofloodlights.   The 
great state of Texas offers metropolitan attractions such as the Dallas 
Fair Park with its art and natural history museums. In contrast 
are the vast open stretches of ranch country and oil wells. In San 
Antonio visit the famous Alamo and photograph 18th Century Spanish 
buildings and churches.   The Great Smoky Mountains is another 
area of the South well worth a visit. Along the 127-mile route through 
Great Smoky Mountains National Park you can photograph the 
breath-taking peaks, gorges and valleys which come into view at every 
turn. Gatlinburg, Tennessee, is the center of this area. Another scenic 
spot in Tennessee is Chattanooga where the Rock City Gardens 
are not to be missed.   Beautiful homes and gardens are trademarks 
of the South and cities particularly noted for them are Charleston, 
S&C&, Natchez, Miss&, and Savannah, Ga&. At Charlottesville, 
Va&, shoot Monticello and the beautiful buildings of the 
University. 

#PICTURING THE SOUTH#

Foliage is the outstanding photo 
subject in many of the Southern locales mentioned above and some 
specific tips on how and where to shoot it are in order. For example, 
the Chamber of Commerce of Gatlinburg, Tennessee, sponsors special 
camera tours into the Great Smoky Mountains to get pictures of the 
profusion of wild flowers flourishing in these wooded regions.

Exposure problems may occur in these forest areas where uneven lighting 
results from shafts of sunlight filtering through the overhead branches. 
Best solution is to find an area that is predominantly sunlight 
or shade. In any instance, you should determine the exposure according 
to the type of light which falls on most of the subject area.

Try some closeups on Southern blossoms to provide a welcome contrast 
with the many long-view scenics you'll be making.   For 
shooting the interiors of the famous ante-bellum Southern mansions make 
sure your equipment includes a tripod. Enough daylight is usually 
available from the windows, but if you have synchronized flash- use 
it.   For some unusual photographic subjects, if your vacation takes 
you nearby, try these events: the 600-mile auto race in Charlotte, 
N& C&, on May 27; the Florida Folk Festival, White Springs, 
May 5-7; Singing on the Mountain in Linville, North Carolina, 
on June 25. Peak action photography is your goal at Miami's 
Seaquarium and the Cypress Gardens waterskiing events. 

#THE 
MIDWEST#

A PLEASANT start to your midwestern vacation is a few 
days spent in cosmopolitan Chicago. Lake Michigan offers swimming 
and pictures which combine cityscapes with beaches. A visit to Chicago's 
museums and a stroll around broad Michigan Avenue will unfold 
many photogenic subjects to the alert photographer.   Wisconsin 
Dells, where fantastically scenic rocks carved by the Wisconsin River 
are overgrown with fern and other foliage, rates a stopover when 
traveling from Chicago.   The farmlands forming the heart of America 
stretch out across the Midwest from Chicago. In North Dakota 
the strangely beautiful Badlands will challenge you to translate its 
wonder on to film. While here, visit Theodore Roosevelt National 
Park for its spectacular scenery.   Another spot with an image-provoking 
name is the Black Hills where you can visit the old frontier 
mining town of Deadwood. The Black Hills Passion Play is produced 
every summer and is a pageant worth seeing and shooting. 
Of course, while in this vicinity you won't want to miss a visit to 
Mount Rushmore National Memorial where on the side of a mountain 
are the famous sculptures of Presidents Washington, Lincoln, Jefferson 
and Theodore Roosevelt.   In Missouri (which we are including 
in our general Midwest region) you can glance into Mark Twain's 
birthplace at Hannibal, see the landmarks of his life and writings 
and visualize where Huck Finn hatched his boyish mischief.

Similarly in Illinois there is Lincoln country to be seen- his 
tomb and other landmarks.   Minnesota, fabled land of waters, is 
in itself, ideal vacationland, 
having within its borders 10,000 lakes! 
Itasca State Park, where the Mississippi River begins, is one 
of the outstanding tourist spots in Minnesota.   Mementoes of the 
Old West recall the days of Wyatt Earp in Dodge City, Nebraska, 
where present-day cowboys add a colorful human interest note to your 
vacation shooting.   Of current interest is Abilene, Kansas, 
the birthplace of ex-President Eisenhower. There's a museum here 
and also Old Abilene Town, a reconstruction of the cattle boomtown 
of the 70's and 80's.   For a resort area, Mackinack Island, 
Michigan, is the place to visit. It truly relives another age for 
the inhabitants use carriages rather than autos and old British and 
French forts are left intact for tourists to visit and record. 

#PICTURES 
OF THE MIDWEST#

Night scenes will add an exciting touch to 
your vacation travelogue and what better place to take them then along 
Chicago's Lake Shore Drive? Just after sunset is a good time 
to record the city lights in color since you get a "fill-in" light 
from the sky.   Another memo for sightseers: bring your camera 
along to museums. Photos of historic dioramas of the area you visit 
will add depth and background to your vacation photo story. Again, 
be sure your tripod is handy for those sometimes-necessary time exposures.

Special events and their dates which will make interesting 
shooting in the Midwest area, include the following:   A re-enactment 
of the Battle of Lexington, May 18th at Lexington, Missouri; 
the world-renowned 500-mile auto race at Indianapolis, Indiana, 
plus a festival from May 27-30; "Song of Hiawatha", in 
Elgin, Illinois, from June 20 to 24th. Michigan offers the lovely 
Tulip Festival in Holland, Michigan, May 12-14; the ~USGA 
Open in Birmingham from June 15-17; and the International Freedom 
Festival in Detroit, June 29-July 4.   For early vacationers 
there's the fun-filled Fishing Derby in Hot Springs, Arkansas, 
April 19-23, and the Arkansas Band Festival in Hot Springs, 
April 20-22. 

#THE WEST#

A WESTERN VACATION is practically 
synonymous with a visit to at least one of the magnificent national parks 
in this area. A tour of several of them is possible in a two-week 
vacation while a stay at just one of these natural beauty spots can 
be of equal reward.   In California is located one of the most 
popular of the national parks- Yosemite. Among its most spectacular 
features are its falls, the highest being Upper Yosemite which drops 
2,425 feet. The Sequoia Grove presents another unique aspect of 
Yosemite, for these ancient giant trees are a sight never to be forgotten.

In the Utah area are Zion National Park and Bryce Canyon 
National Park. Fantastic colors are to be seen in the fanciful 
formations of eroded rock which loom out of the semiarid country in 
both parks.   Colorado's Grand Canyon, probably the most famous 
landmark of the United States, can be the highpoint of your Western 
vacation.

BUILT UPON seven hills, Istanbul, like Rome, is one of 
the most ancient cities in the world, filled with splendor and contrast. 
It is an exotic place, so different from the ordinary that the casual 
tourist is likely to see at first only the contrast and the ugliness 
of narrow streets lined with haphazard houses. At the moment, many 
of these are being pulled down. Whole blocks are disappearing and more 
are scheduled to vanish to make room for wide boulevards that will 
show off its treasures to better advantage- the great domes and graceful 
spires of its mosques, the panorama of the Bosphorus and the Golden 
Horn. Even when they are finished, however, the contrast will 
remain, for Istanbul is the only city in the world that is built upon 
two continents. For almost 3,000 years Europe and Asia have rubbed 
shoulders in its streets.   Founded in the Ninth Century B&C& 
it was called Byzantium 200 years later when Byzas, ruler of 
the Megarians, expanded the settlement and named it after himself. About 
a thousand years after that, when the Roman Empire was divided, 
it became capital of the Eastern section. On May 11, 330 A&D&, 
its name was changed again, this time to Constantinople after its 
emperor, Constantine. In 1453 when the last vestige of ancient Roman 
power fell to the Turks, the city officially shifted religions- 
although the Patriarch, or Pope, of the Orthodox Church continued 
to live there, and still does- and became the capital of the Ottoman 
Empire. When <that> was broken up after the First World War, 
its name was changed once more. Rich in Christian and Moslem art, 
Istanbul is today a fascinating museum of East and West that 
recently 
became a seaside resort as well with the development of new beaches on 
the Bosphorus and the Sea of Marmara only a short distance from the 
center of town. Easy to get to, and becoming more popular every year, 
it is only fourteen hours from New York by Pan American World 
Airways jet, four hours from Rome. 

#START OF TOUR#

Most of the 
sights lie in the old section across the Golden Horn from the modern 
hotels. I started my tour of them at the Turkish Government Tourist 
Office, next to Pan American's office on the left as you enter 
the driveway that leads to the Hilton Hotel. From there I turned 
left along Cumhuriyet Cadesi past more hotels and a park on the left, 
Republic Gardens, and came in a few moments to Taksim Square, one 
of the hubs of the city, with the Monument of the Republic, erected 
in 1928, in its center.   Directly across from the Gardens I 
found a bus stop sign for ~T 4 and rode it down to the Bosphorus, 
with the sports center on my left just before I reached the water and 
the entrance to Dolmabahce Palace immediately after that. There 
the bus turned right along the Bosphorus, past ocean liners at anchor, 
to Galata Bridge over the entrance to the Golden Horn, a brown sweep 
of water that empties into the Bosphorus. Across the bridge on 
the left I saw St& Sophia with its sturdy brown minarets and to the 
right of them the slenderer spires of the Blue Mosque.   On 
the other side of the Golden Horn I rode through Eminonu Square, 
with Yeni Cami, or the New Mosque, which dates from the Seventeenth 
Century, just across from the entrance to the bridge. Passing it, 
the bus climbed a hill, with the covered spice bazaar on the right and 
Pandelli's, a famous and excellent restaurant, above it. At the 
top of the hill the buildings on the left gave way to a park. I got 
off there, crossed the street, walked ahead with St& Sophia on my 
left, the Blue Mosque on my right, and in a moment came to the entrance 
of St& Sophia.   Erected on the site of pagan temples and 
three previous St& Sophias, the first of which was begun by Constantine, 
this fourth church was started by Justinian in 532 and completed 
twenty years later. On his first trip to the finished structure 
he boasted that he had built a temple grander than Solomon's in Jerusalem. 
A few years later the dome fell in. Nevertheless, it remained 
one of the most splendid churches of the Eastern Empire, where 
the Byzantine Emperors were crowned. After the Turks conquered the 
city in 1453 they converted it to a mosque, adding the stubby minarets. 
In the second half of the Sixteenth Century, Sinan, the great architect 
who is the Michelangelo of the East, designed the massive buttresses 
that now help support the dome. With the birth of the Turkish 
Republic after the First World War, St& Sophia became a museum, 
and the ancient mosaics, which were plastered over by the Moslems, 
whose religion forbids pictures in holy places, have been restored.

Inside over the first door I saw one of these, which shows 
Constantine offering the city to the Virgin Mary and Justinian offering 
the temple. On the columns around the immense dome are round plaques 
with Arabic writing. The eight green columns, I learned, came 
from the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, the others, red, from the Temple 
of the Sun at Heliopolis.   Beneath the dome I saw the 
spot where the Byzantine Emperors were crowned, a bit of floor protected 
now by a wooden fence. Behind this is a minber or Moslem pulpit 
and near it a raised platform with golden grillwork, where the emperors 
and, after them, the sultans, sat. Directly opposite is the emperor's 
door, through which they entered the building.   Outside 
St& Sophia I walked through the flower garden in front of it, with 
the Blue Mosque ahead on my left. Across the street on my right I 
saw the Hippodrome, now a park. It was laid out in 196 for chariot 
races and other public games. Statues and other monuments that stood 
there were stolen, mostly by the waves of Crusaders.   At 
the beginning of the Hippodrome I saw the Kaiser's Fountain, an 
ugly octagonal building with a glass dome, built in 1895 by the German 
Emperor, and on my left, directly across from it, the tomb of Sultan 
Ahmet, who constructed the Blue Mosque, more properly known by 
his name.   Just before coming to the mosque entrance I crossed 
the street, entered the Hippodrome, and walked ahead to the Obelisk 
of Theodosius, originally erected in Heliopolis in Egypt about 1,600 
B&C& by Thutmose, who also built those now in New York, 
London and Rome at the Lateran. This one was set up here in 390 A&D& 
on a pedestal, the faces of which are carved with statues of 
the emperor and his family watching games in the Hippodrome, done so 
realistically that the obelisk itself is included in them.   Beyond 
it I noted a small green column, about twelve feet below the present 
ground level- the Serpentine Column, three entwined serpents, 
which once stood at the Temple of Apollo at Delphi, Greece. Near 
the end of the Hippodrome I came upon the Built Column, a truncated 
obelisk of blocks, all that remains of a monument that once rivalled 
the Colossus of Rhodes. 

#MAGNIFICENT MOSQUE#

Retracing my steps 
to the Mosque of Sultan Ahmet, only one with six minarets, I entered 
the courtyard, with a gallery supported by pointed arches running 
around it and a fountain in the middle. One of the most beautiful 
buildings in Istanbul, it was constructed in the early years of the Seventeenth 
Century, with a huge central dome, two half domes that seem 
to cascade down from it, and smaller full domes around the gallery. 
The round minarets, tall and graceful, rise from rectangular bases and 
have three platforms from which the muezzin can chant his call to prayer. 
Inside, the walls are covered with blue and white tile, the floor 
with red and cream carpets.   Back at the Kaiser's Fountain, 
I walked left to the streetcar stop and rode up the hill- any 
car will do- past the Column of Constantine, also known as the Burnt 
Column, at the top on my right. It stands in the middle of what 
was once the Forum of Constantine, who brought it from Rome.

I stayed on the car for a few minutes until, turning right, it entered 
a huge square, Bayezit, with the Bayezit Mosque on the right and 
the gate to the university just beyond it. There I got off, crossed 
the square, and on the side directly opposite the gate found a good 
restaurant, hard to come by in this part of the city. Called the Marmara 
Gazinosu, it is on the third floor, with signs pointing the way 
there, and has a terrace overlooking the Sea of Marmara. After lunch, 
in the arcade on my left just before reaching the street I found a 
pastry shop that sells some of the best baklava- a sweet, flaky cake- 
in Istanbul. It's a great favorite of the university students, 
and I joined them there for dessert.   Taking the streetcar back 
to Kaiser's Fountain, I walked ahead, then left down the street 
opposite St& Sophia and just beyond the corner came to a small, 
one-story building with a red-tile roof, which is the entrance to the 
Sunken Palace. Actually an underground cistern, its roof supported 
by rows and rows of pillars, it was built by Justinian in the Sixth 
Century to supply the palace with water. There is still water in it. 
I found it fairly depressing and emerged almost immediately. 
Outside I walked past the entrance to St& Sophia, turned left at 
the end of it, and continued toward a gate in the wall ahead. Just 
before reaching it I came to a grey and brown stone building that looks 
somewhat like an Oriental pagoda, with Arabic lettering in gold and 
colored tile decorations- the Fountain of Sultan Ahmet.

Going through the Imperial Gate in the wall, I entered the grounds 
of Topkapi Palace, home of the Sultans and nerve center of the vast 
Ottoman Empire, and walked along a road toward another gate in the 
distance, past the Church of St& Irene, completed by Constantine 
in 330 A&D& on my left, and then, just outside the second 
gate, I saw a spring with a tap in the wall on my right- the Executioner's 
Spring, where he washed his hands and his sword after beheading 
his victims.   Passing through the gate, with towers on either 
side once used as prisons, I entered a huge square surrounded by 
buildings, and on the wall to my right found a general plan of the grounds, 
with explanations in English for each building. There are a 
good many of them. At one time about 10,000 people lived there.

Following arrowed signs, I veered right toward the former kitchens, 
complete with chimneys, which now house one of the world's greatest 
collections of Chinese porcelain and a fabulous array of silver dinner 
services. Next to it is a copper section, with cooking utensils 
and a figure of the chief cook in an elaborate, floor-length robe.

In the court once more, I went right toward the Reception House, 
a long one-story building with a deep portico. Going through a door 
into another small court, I had the Throne Room directly in front. 
I walked to the right around it to buildings containing illuminated 
manuscripts and came to the Treasury, which houses such things as coffee 
cups covered with diamonds, jewelled swords, rifles glittering with 
diamonds and huge divan-like thrones as large as small beds, on which 
the sultans sat cross-legged. They are made of gold and covered with 
emeralds, pearls and other jewels.   Taking the path behind 
the Throne Room to the building directly beyond it, the Portrait Gallery, 
I went right at the end of it, through a garden to a small building 
at the back- a sitting room furnished with low blue divans, its 
floor covered with carpets, its ceiling painted with gold squares and 
floral designs.

<DO> start fires one or two hours ahead of time to obtain 
a 
lasting bed of glowing coals. Keep ashes from one barbecue to the next 
to sprinkle over coals if they are too hot, and to stop flames that 
arise from melting grease.   <Do> line barbecue fire bowl 
with 
heavy foil to reflect heat.   <Don't> forget to buy a plastic 
pastry brush for basting with sauces. Clean it meticulously in boiling 
water and detergent, rinse thoroughly.   <Do> build a wall 
of glowing coals six to eight inches in front of meat that is barbecued 
on an electric spit. Make use of the back of the barbecue or of the 
hood for heating vegetables, sauces and such.   <Don't> 
fail to shorten cooking time by the use of aluminum foil cut slightly 
larger than the surface of steaks and chops. Sear on both sides then 
cover meat loosely with heat reflecting foil for juiciest results.

<Do> avoid puncturing or cutting into meats to test them. If doubtful 
about a steak, boldly cut it in half. If necessary to replace 
both halves on grill, sear cuts and allot extra time. For roasts, insert 
meat thermometer diagonally so it does not rest on bone. Also make 
sure thermometer does not touch the revolving spit or hit the coals.

<Don't> practice a new recipe on guests. Have a test-run 
on the family first, to be sure timing and seasoning are right.

<Do> buy meat the day or the day before you intend to cook it. Keep 
it no longer than 36 hours before cooking, and keep it in the coldest 
(but non-freezing) compartment of the refrigerator.   <Don't> 
plan meals that are too complicated. Limit yourself to good meat 
and drink, with bread, salad, corn or potatoes as accessories. Keep 
the desserts simple; fruit does nicely.   <Do> whatever kitchen 
work, such as fixing a salad, preparing garlic bread, or making 
a marinade sauce, ahead of time. When you start the outdoor performance, 
you can stay outdoors without a dozen running trips into the kitchen. 
(This goes for getting a drink tray ready, and for having a big cooler 
full of ice on hand long before the party begins.) 
<Don't> 
think you have to start with the most expensive equipment in the 
world. The simplest grill (pan type) or inexpensive hibachi can make 
you a chef. You need tongs to handle meat; long forks for turning 
potatoes and corn; heavy foil on hand at all times. And lots of hot 
pads!   <Do> keep the grill high enough above the fire so that 
when fat from meat drips down and flares up, flames cannot reach the 
meat.   <Don't> forget to have a supply of Melamine plates, 
bowls, cups, saucers, and platters for outdoor use. Made of the world's 
toughest unbreakable plastic, Melamine dinnerware comes in almost 
400 different patterns and dozens of colors. There is even one 
set that has "barbecue" written on it.   <Do> without fancy 
tablecloths. It's cheaper to buy Wall-Tex and cover your outdoor 
table. Or buy half a dozen lengths of oilcloth and change patterns 
for different kinds of barbecues. Oilcloth only costs about 79~c a 
yard for the very best. Tougher than plastic, it wears well. 
<Don't> forget- when you take to the hills or the beach- that 
your cooler, which you might have used for wine- or beer-cooling on your 
terrace or back yard, is indispensable for carrying liquid refreshments. 
There are many varieties of coolers and they serve many purposes. 
With them, you can carry steaks and hamburgers at refrigerator temperatures, 
and also get your frozen food for stews and chowders, to the 
marina or picnic, in A-1 condition.   <Do> use paper napkins; 
lots of them. Except when you prepare "do it yourself" shish 
kebob or a lobster roast. Then you'll want terry cloth towels 
for mopping up.   <Don't> think barbecue cooking is just sometimes, 
or seasonal. It's year-round, and everywhere. In the winter, 
hibachi in the kitchen or grill over the logs of the fireplace. Even 
use your portable electric or gas grill in the winter, inside. Summertime 
supper, outside, is a natural. You'll find, once your technique 
is perfected, that you can cook on a boat with a simple Bernz-O-Matic.

<Do> buy all-purpose mugs or cups. Get copper or 
earthenware mugs that keep beer chilled or soup hot. Be sure to get 
a few more than you need. You will discover you keep the sauce for basting 
meat in one, use six for drinks, serve soup or coffee in another 
half-dozen- and need one more to mix the salad dressing.   <Don't> 
forget the joys of a meal on the road. If you travel over the 
vast U&S&A& you will, no doubt, discover that feeding is an 
expensive business. Decide in the beginning to put your barbecue equipment 
to work. You <can> take it with you **h a picnic bag, a 
grill, 
a cooler for soft drinks and beer, and for frozen convenience foods. Eat 
in a restaurant or motel mornings and evenings; or just evenings. 
Turn off at any one of the marked picnic areas (gasoline companies 
have touring service bureaus that issue booklets on national parks to 
tell you where you have barbecue facilities) and- with soft drinks 
cooled from morning loading up, hamburger, buns, an array of relishes, 
and fresh fruit- your lunch is 75% cheaper than at a restaurant, 
and 100% more fun. You need a little stove, a coffee pot and a stew 
pot; maybe a skillet, a basket of essentials like salt, pepper, plates, 
forks, knives and a can opener. As you pull out of your motel or 
national park home-for-the-night, visit a market and buy just what you 
need for the next meal. For 25~c load up the cooler with ice and 
keep cool pop in the car. 

#SIMPLE MEAT DISHES#

SPICE is a fact of 
life in the U&S&A&. You only have to think of franks and sausages 
to know what I mean. Go a step further and list all the wonderful 
barbecue basics- cervelat, salami, Vienna sausages, mettwurst, 
bratwurst, bockwurst, knackwurst, Bologna, pepperoni, blutwurst- and 
you have a long list of easy specialties. Threaded on a skewer with 
new boiled potatoes, a bit of green pepper, a fresh white mushroom- 
any one of these spiced meats makes a man a cook, and a meal a feast.

Sure, for the most of us, a frankfurter is the favorite. A 
story goes that a certain Herr Feuchtwanger of St& Louis, around 
1883 served his sausages (grilled) and mustard to his fancy customers. 
So that his customers should not soil their hands, Feuchtwanger issued 
white gloves. Discovery that the gloves frequently left with the 
customers made the wise peddler of spiced sausage-meat come upon a compromise. 
He had a bakery make buns sized to fit his franks. Years later, 
franks-in-buns were accepted as the "first to go" at the New 
York Polo Grounds.   The nations's number one picnic treat 
is the skinless frankfurter- toasted over a bonfire on the beach or, 
more sedately, charcoal broiled on a portable grill. Either way it's 
hard to beat in flavor as well as ease of preparation. To make the 
picnic frank come close to perfection, remember these tips:

-Score each frankfurter in four or five places about a third of 
the way through. This permits the juices to permeate the meat during 
cooking.   -Relishes are as vital to the success of the frank 
as are buns. Bring along the conventional ones- catsup, pickle relish, 
mustard, mayonnaise- plus a few extras, such as tangy barbecue 
sauce, chive cream cheese, or horse-radish for the brave ones in the crowd.

-Using a portable grill permits you to toast the buns, 
too. Watch closely while browning them, as it doesn't take long.

-An unusual flavor can be achieved by marinating the franks 
in French dressing or a mixture of honey, lemon juice and brown sugar 
prior to the picnic. Broil or toast as usual.   Contrary to 
popular opinion, "a la mode" doesn't mean "with ice cream"- 
it just means, in the latest style. Here are a couple of the latest, 
highly styled ways to fix skinless franks in your own back yard! 
You'll 
have the neighbor's eyes popping as well as their mouths watering! 

_JIFFY BARBECUES_ {1 cup chili sauce 1/3 cup water 1 tablespoon 
barbecue sauce 2 teaspoons prepared mustard 1/2 pound chipped, 
spiced ham 6 sandwich buns, heated}   Combine first 4 ingredients 
in saucepan; heat thoroughly. Add ham; heat. Serve on buns. 
Makes 6 barbecues. _HOT HIBACHI FRANKS_ You'll never hear "sayonara", 
the Japanese word for goodbye, from your guests when you 
give a hibachi party. The fun of toasting their own sausages over the 
small Oriental charcoal burners and dipping them in tasty sauces 
will 
keep your group busy- try it and see! _CANNED COCKTAIL FRANKFURTERS_ 

_SWEET-SOUR SAUCE_ {1 large onion, chopped fine 2 tablespoons 
salad oil 1 8-oz& can crushed pineapple and 1/2 cup of the juice 
1/4 cup brown sugar 2 tablespoons vinegar 1 tablespoon prepared mustard 
1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce} _PINEAPPLE CHUNKS_ _MUSTARD 
CREAM_ {2 tablespoons dry mustard Water 1/2 cup heavy 
cream, whipped Salt Paprika}   Spear canned cocktail franks 
with picks. Also spear pineapple chunks and place in separate bowl.

Make sauces ahead. Sweet-sour sauce can be kept warm over a second 
hibachi or chafing dish while charcoal in broiler is reaching glowing 
coal stage. Mustard cream, used as alternate dip for franks and 
pineapple tidbits, tastes best when served at room temperature. 
For sweet-sour sauce, cook onion in oil until soft. Add remaining ingredients 
and bring to a boil. Simmer about 10 minutes, and keep warm 
for serving.   To prepare mustard cream, blend mustard with enough 
water to make a thin paste. Fold into whipped cream and add a dash 
of salt and sprinkling of paprika. _TRIM-YOUR-OWN-FRANKS_ A back-yard 
picnic with grilled frankfurters and a selection of frankfurter 
trimmings is a fine way to entertain guests this summer. Be sure to 
have plenty of frankfurters and buns on hand. Some tasty frank toppings 
are chili con carne, Coney Island sauce and savory sauerkraut. Serve 
the chili and kraut hot with the franks.   Here are suggestions 
for the frankfurter trimmings: _1._ Chili con carne: use 
canned chili con carne. _2._ Coney Island sauce: finely chop 
several onions and add enough catsup to moisten well; add prepared 
mustard to suit taste. _3._ Savory sauerkraut: add several tablespoons 
of brown sugar to a can of sauerkraut. Add a few caraway seeds, 
too, if you'd like. _BARBECUED FRANKFURTERS_ {1/2 cup minced 
celery 1/4 cup minced onion 1/2 cup tomato ketchup 1/2 cup water 1/4 
cup vinegar 2 tablespoons brown sugar 1 tablespoon Worcestershire sauce 
1 tablespoon prepared mustard 1/2 teaspoon salt 8 frankfurters}

Combine first 9 ingredients in skillet. Simmer 15 minutes. Prick 
frankfurters with fork; place in sauce. Cover; simmer 15 minutes, 
stirring occasionally, until sauce is of desired consistency. Serve 
in frankfurter buns or as a meat dish. Makes 8 sandwiches or 4 
servings. _PRETEND HAM_ Make criss-cross gashes on one side of skinless 
frankfurters. Stick 4 or 5 cloves in each frank, ham fashion. 
Make a paste of brown sugar and mustard and spread lightly over scored 
surface. If desired, sprinkle with 1 teaspoon drained crushed pineapple. 
Place on rectangle of foil and pinch edges together tightly. Roast 
on grill over coals 15-20 minutes. _FRANKFURTER TWISTS_ Blend 
2 cups biscuit mix with 2/3 cup milk to make a soft dough. Knead on 
lightly floured board and roll out to form a **f-inch rectangle. Spread 
dough with a mixture of 3 tablespoons chili sauce, 1 teaspoon horse-radish 
and 2 teaspoons mustard. Cut dough carefully into 12 strips, 
about 3/4 inch by a foot long. Twist one strip diagonally around each 
skinless frankfurter, pinching dough at ends to seal it. Brush frankfurter 
twists with about 1/2 cup melted butter and toast slowly over 
glowing coals until dough is golden brown. Serves 12. _HAMBURGER PATTIES 
WITH NUTS_ {1 pound ground beef 2 teaspoons grated onion Dash 
of pepper 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 cup chopped walnuts 1/4 cup ice cold 
bourbon}   Combine ingredients; form into patties and barbecue 
5 minutes on each side. 

_NOTE:_ Directions are written for those who have had previous 
experience in making pottery. Instructions for preparing clay, drying, 
glazing and firing are not given. 

#EQUIPMENT:#

Basic pottery 
studio equipment. Wooden butter molds and cookie presses. 

#MATERIALS:# 

Ceramic modeling clay: red, white or buff. Stoneware clay 
for tiles. Glazes, one-stroke ceramic colors, stains, cones as indicated 
in the individual instructions. 

#GENERAL DIRECTIONS:#

Use 
well-wedged clay, 
free of air bubbles and pliable enough to bend without 
cracking. Clean wooden molds and presses thoroughly; they must be 
free of oil, wax and dust. _PRESSING DESIGNS:_ The size of wooden 
mold will determine the amount of clay needed. Roll clay to thickness 
indicated in individual instructions. Whenever possible, use the 
wooden mold as a pattern for cutting clay. When mold has more than one 
design cavity, make individual paper patterns. Place mold or paper 
pattern on rolled clay and cut clay by holding knife in vertical position 
(cut more pieces than required for project to make allowance for 
defects; experiment with defects for decoration techniques of glazes 
and colors). Place the cut clay piece loosely over the carved cavity 
design side of wooden mold. To obtain clear impression of mold, press 
clay gently but firmly into mold cavity, starting at center and working 
to outer edges. Trim excess clay away from outer edges. Check thickness 
of clay and build up thin areas by moistening surface with a little 
water and adding small pieces of clay. Be sure to press the additional 
clay firmly into place without locking in air bubbles. Allow 
project to stand for about five minutes (if wooden press mold is a good 
antique, do not leave clay in too long as the dampness may cause mold 
to crack).   To release clay from mold, place hands in a cupped 
position around project; gently lift the edge on far side, then continue 
to release edge completely around mold. Slight tapping on the 
underside of mold will help release the clay, but too much agitation will 
cause the clay to become soft and will interfere with removal of clay 
from mold. Place a piece of plaster wall board or plaster bat on 
clay and reverse bat, clay and mold in one action. This will prevent 
the clay from twisting or bending, causing warping when fired. Place 
project on table and carefully lift the mold off. Study surface of clay 
for defects or desired corrections. If clay is slightly out of shape, 
square straight sides with guide sticks or rulers pressed against 
opposite sides, or smooth round pieces with damp fingers. if the background 
of design is too smooth, or you wish to create a wood-grained effect, 
it may be added at this time with a dull tool such as the handle 
of a fine paintbrush. Make slight, smooth grooves rather than cuts 
for the texture (cuts could cause air pockets under the glaze creating 
pinholes or craters in the glaze during firing). Leave the clay on 
plaster board to dry slowly, covered lightly with a loose piece of plastic 
or cloth to prevent warping. 

#RECTANGULAR TILES#

(opposite page, 
right top): Stoneware clay was used. Clay was rolled to 1/4'' 
thickness. Back of clay scored or roughened for proper gripping 
surface. No bisque firing. glazed with two coats of Creek-Turn white 
stoneware glaze (no glaze on sides or bottom). Decorated on unfired 
glaze with one coat of one-stroke ceramic colors; raised details of 
designs were colored in shades of yellow-green, blue-green, brown and 
pink. Tiles were fired once to cone 05. 

#ROUND PLAQUE#

(opposite 
page, bottom): White clay was used, rolled to 1/4'' thickness. 
Bisque fired to cone 05. Stained with Jacquelyn's ceramic unfired 
stain, polished, following manufacturer's directions. Opaque cantaloupe 
and transparent wood brown were used. No further firing. 

#PAPERWEIGHT# 
(opposite page, top left): Red clay was used, rolled 
1/2'' 
thick. Mold was used as pattern and clay cut by holding knife 
at about 45` angle, to form an undercut, making base smaller than the 
pattern top. While clay is still pressed in mold, press three equally 
spaced holes 1/4'' deep, using pencil eraser, in bottom of clay 
to allow for proper drying and firing. Paperweight may be personalized 
on back while clay is leather hard. Bisque fired to cone 05. Unglazed. 

#JARS WITH LIDS# 
(opposite page, top left): Remove wooden 
design head from bowl of butter mold. Fill small hole in bowl with clay. 
Make paper patterns for sections of jar and lid (see Fig& 1, 
opposite page). Measurements 
for rectangular pattern piece ~A are obtained 
by measuring inside circumference and depth of butter mold bowl. 
Pattern for circular base piece ~B is diameter of ~A. Use wooden 
design head of mold for pattern ~C; pattern ~D for lid fits 
over top diameter of ~A. Pattern for inner lid piece ~E fits 
inside ~A. Jars are assembled in bowl of butter mold.   Use 
white or buff clay, rolled to 3/16'' thickness. Place patterns 
on rolled clay and cut around them with knife in vertical position. Place 
clay pieces on wall board.   To assemble jar, put paper pattern 
~B for base in bottom of mold and clay disk ~B on top. Line 
sides of mold with paper pattern ~A. Bevel and score ends of clay 
piece ~A so that they overlap about 1/2'' and make even thickness. 
Place clay piece ~A inside; use slip to join overlapped ends 
together. Join ~B to bottom of ~A, scoring and reinforcing with 
clay coil. Trim excess clay from around lip of mold and set aside 
while assembling lid.   To assemble lid, press clay piece ~C 
in cavity of wooden design head. Press clay into mold as instructed 
in General Directions. Score plain side of ~C and leave in mold. 
Score one side of disk ~D, join to ~C; score other side of ~D 
and one side of disk ~E and join as before. While assembled lid 
is still on design head, gently but firmly press it on plaster board. 
If design head has a 
deep cavity, clay lid will be quite thick at this 
point; press eraser of pencil gently 1/4'' deep into deep clay 
to allow vent for proper drying and firing. Check fit of lid on jar; 
if inner lid is too big, trim to fit, allowing room for thickness 
of glaze. Remove lid from head of mold. Remove jar from mold. Place 
jar on plaster board with lid in place to dry slowly. Bisque fire to 
cone 08 with lid on jar.   For an antique effect on jars, brush 
Creek-Turn brown toner on bisque ware and sponge it off. Glaze with 
two coats of clear or transparent matt glaze. The large jar was brushed 
with Creek-Turn green toner and sponged off. Glaze with two coats 
of matt glazes in turquoise with touches of blossom pink on lid. When 
dry they were fired to cone 06-05. 

#LITTLE FOLKS SET:#

(Made 
from modern wooden molds **f.) 
Roll white clay to 3/16'' thickness. 

_SALT AND PEPPER:_ Use mold to cut four side pieces. For 
top and bottom pieces, use short end of mold as measurement guide. Press 
the side pieces of clay into cavity of mold. Trim excess clay from 
rim 
of mold. Cut beveled edge on the long sides of clay at a 45` angle 
to miter corners. Score beveled edges and remove pieces from mold; 
place design-side up on plaster board. Make all four sides. Cut clay 
top and base pieces; place on plaster board. Allow all pieces to 
become leather hard before constructing shaker. _TO ASSEMBLE:_ 
Construct sides, bottom and top as for box, using slip on scored edges 
and coils of clay to reinforce seams. Join the four sides together 
first, then add the base; add top last. Use water on finger to smooth 
seams and edges. Turn shaker upside down. Recess base slightly to 
allow room for stopper. Cut hole in base for cork stopper. Add holes 
in top, forming "~S" for salt and "~P" for pepper. Set 
aside to dry thoroughly. _SUGAR AND CREAMER:_ Cut a strip of 
clay for sides long enough and wide enough for three impressions of mold 
design. Press clay into cavity of one mold three times; bevel overlapping 
ends for splice joint, score beveled edges. Form clay strip 
into a cylinder; use slip to join scored ends. Place cylinder on 
a disk of clay slightly larger than cylinder. Score bottom edge of cylinder 
and join to disk with slip. Trim away excess clay; reinforce 
seam with a coil of clay. This will form the sugar bowl. Make creamer 
the same.   Handle for creamer is a strip of clay 1/2'' wide 
and 3-1/2'' long. To add handle, place a wooden dowel against 
the inside wall of creamer. Score outside of container where handle 
ends will be joined. Bend 
handle; press scored handle ends firmly in 
place using dowel to reinforce container while pressing; use slip to 
join. To form spout, between two designs, dampen area slightly and 
gently push clay outward. Make lid for sugar bowl the same as jar lids, 
omitting design disk. Cut a 
notch in lid for spoon handle if desired. 
Set aside to dry with lid on sugar bowl. _VASES:_ Make same 
as salt and pepper shakers, leaving off top pieces. Vases may be made 
into candles by filling with melted wax and a wick. _NAPKIN HOLDER:_ 
Cut a piece of clay for base and two for sides each about **f (long 
enough for three impressions of mold). Press the two sides into 
cavity of one mold three times. Put cut pieces on plaster board to dry 
to firm leather-hard state. Score side edges of base; join sides 
and base with slip and reinforce with coil. A cardboard pattern cut to 
fit inside holder will help to prevent warping. Place pattern inside 
holder; use three strips of clay to hold in place (see Fig& 
2, page 71). Do not use wood as it will not shrink with the clay and 
would cause breakage.   Let all projects dry slowly for several 
days. Clean greenware. Bisque fire to cone 08. Inside of pieces 
was glazed with three coats of Creek-Turn bottle green antique glaze. 
Outside was finished with Creek-Turn brown toner brushed on and sponged 
off to give antique finish. Fired to cone 06-05. 

#CHANGING COLORS#


_TO CHANGE FROM ONE COLOR YARN TO ANOTHER:_ 
When changing from one color to another, whether working on right or 
wrong side, pick up the new strand from underneath dropped strand. Photograph 
shows the wrong side of work with light strand being picked 
up under dark strand in position to be purled. _TO MEASURE WORK:_ 
Spread article on flat surface to required width before measuring 
length at center. 

#MEASURING ARMHOLE#


_TO MEASURE ARMHOLE:_ 
Mark row on which first stitches 
have been bound off for armhole by drawing 
a contrasting colored thread through it. Place work on a flat surface 
and smooth out. Measure straight up from marked row. See illustration. 

_TO INSERT MARKERS:_ When directions read "~sl a 
marker on needle", put a small safety pin, paper clip, or commercial 
ring marker on needle. In working, always slip marker from one needle 
to another. To mark a row or stitch, tie contrasting thread around 
end 
of row or stitch to be marked. 

#BACKSTITCHING SEAM#


_TO SEW SEAMS 
WITH BACKSTITCH:_ Most seams are sewn with backstitch, especially 
on curved, slanted or loose edges. Pin right sides of pieces together, 
keeping edges even and matching rows or patterns. Thread matching 
yarn in tapestry needle. Run end of yarn through several stitches 
along edge to secure; backstitch pieces together close to edge. Do 
not draw yarn too tight. See illustration. _TO SEW IN SLEEVES:_ 
Place sleeve seam at center underarm and center of sleeve cap at shoulder 
seam. Ease in any extra fullness evenly around. Backstitch seam. 

#WEAVING SEAM#


_TO WEAVE SEAMS TOGETHER:_ Straight vertical 
edges, such as those at the back seam of a sock, can be woven together 
invisibly. Thread matching yarn in tapestry needle. Hold edges 
together, right side up.

HOTEI is 23 feet long with an 8-1/2-foot beam and every inch 
a family boat. Menfolk can ride in the forward cockpit where the 
helmsman has a clear view. Youngsters can sleep or amuse themselves 
safely in the large cabin which has 5-foot 11-inch headroom, bunks for 
three, galley and marine toilet. The gals can sun themselves in the 
roomy aft cockpit. All are well distributed, not crowded together near 
the stern. And with passenger weight shifted forward, Hotei levels 
off for speed under power of a Merc 800. The 80-~hp motor drives 
her at 25 ~mph with six aboard!   With only two aboard, Hotei 
does better than 27 
~mph- and she gives a comfortable ride at this 
speed even in a three-foot chop. She also banks into a turn like 
a fine runabout- not digging in on the outside to throw passengers all 
over the boat like many a small cabin cruiser. Nor is she a wet boat. 
We've been out in five-foot waves and stayed dry.

{A lot of 
thought} went into storage space construction. There's a large compartment 
in the forward cockpit for charts and other items. The cabin 
has several shelves for small items and storage under the bunks for 
water skiis, life jackets, etc&. 
The aft cockpit has a **f storage bin 
over six feet long that doubles as a seat. On each side of the motor 
well there's storage for battery, bumpers, line and spare props with 
six-gallon gas tanks below. The well itself is designed to take two 
Merc 800's or 500's if you wish and there's room for a 25-gallon 
long-cruise gas tank below it.   Needless to say, you can't 
build Hotei in a couple of weeks. Our building time was slightly 
over 400 hours- but the total cost for the hull with Fiberglas bottom, 
sink, head and hardware was under $800. A comparable manufactured 
boat would cost close to $3,000. Consider what you have to earn to be 
able to spend the $3,000 and your building time is well worth it. A 
Gator trailer, Model 565, is used to transport the boat to the waterways. 
This piece of equipment costs a little over $600 but it will save 
you that in mooring and hauling fees in a few years.   All framing 
in Hotei is one-inch mahogany which, in the dressed state you 
buy it, is about the 13/16-inch thickness specified in the drawings. Therefore, 
the lumber is bought in planks and ripped to size for battens, 
etc&, on a table saw. Besides flathead bronze screws, silicon bronze 
Stronghold nails (made by Independent Nail + Packing Co&, 
Bridgewater, Mass&) are used extensively in assembly and Weldwood 
resorcinal glue is used in all the joints.   {Construction} 
follows a thorough study of the drawings. Start by laying out the six 
frames and the transom on a level floor. Draw each outline in a different-color 
chalk, one on top of the other. In this way you will be 
able to detect any obvious mistakes.   The transom frame is made 
first with the joints lapped, glued and fastened with one-inch, No& 
12 Stronghold nails. After notching it for the keelson, chines and 
battens, the half-inch plywood transom is secured to it with glue 
and the same type 
nails. All frames are butted at the joints and 3/8-inch plywood gussets 
are glued and nailed on each side of each joint, again using the one-inch, 
No& 12 nails. The frames are notched only for the keelson 
and the chines. If notched for the battens, they would require more work, 
be weakened and limber holes would have to be bored so that bilge 
water could flow through. Nowhere in the boat do the frames come in 
contact with the plywood planking.   The jig is erected after the 
frames and transom are complete. This is an important step because 
any misalignment would cause progressively worse misalignment in the hull 
as you advance in construction. Be sure all members are parallel, 
vertical and level as required.   After the frames and transom 
are set up on the jig and temporarily braced, a piece of three-inch-wide 
mahogany (only widths will be given since the 13/16-inch thickness 
is used throughout) is butted between frames one and two below the line 
of the keelson. The frames are glued and screwed to this piece. The 
joints are also reinforced on each side with small blocks set in resin-saturated 
Fiberglas cloth and nailed. It is over this piece that the 
laminated stem and keelson are spliced.   The keelson, made of 
two three-inch widths, is next installed. The first piece is glued 
and screwed to the frames and transom and the piece butted between frames 
one and two. The second piece is in turn glued and screwed to the 
first. Note, however, that it is six inches shorter at the forward end. 
One-inch, No& 10 screws are used in both cases.   {A stem 
jig} is next cut to the proper shape and temporarily fastened to 
frame one. The stem is laminated from four pieces. Take two three-inch-wide 
pieces and rip them down the center of the thickness to make 
the four. Then spread a generous amount of glue on the four pieces and 
bend them into place on the jig. The first two pieces butt against 
the inner member of the keelson and are glued and screwed to the brace 
between the first two frames. The second two pieces lap over the inner 
member of the keelson and butt against the outer member. They're 
glued and screwed to the inner member of the keelson. A number of ~C 
clamps hold the pieces together on the jig until the glue sets.

All bottom battens are two inches wide. The side ones are a half-inch 
narrower. The battens are carefully fastened in place after some 
necessary fairing on all frames. Glue and 1-1/2-inch, No& 10 screws 
are used. Placement is important because the rear seat, bunks and 
front jump seats rest on or are fastened to many of the side battens. 
With the exception of two battens, all run to the stem where they 
are glued and screwed after careful beveling. The chines go in the same 
way except that they are made of two pieces of two-inch wood for strength 
and easier bending.   Fairing is always a tedious job but 
the work can be cut down considerably with a Skill planer and a simple 
jig. I clamped a 30-inch piece of aluminum to the base of the planer 
with a pair of Sure Grips. The aluminum, flush against the battens, 
acted as a fairing stick and enabled me to plane the chines and keelson 
to the proper bevels easily. If you don't own a planer and don't 
want to buy one, it's well worth renting.   {The planking} 
is five-ply, 3/8-inch-thick Weldwood Royal Marine plywood. This 
can be obtained in 42-inch widths 24 feet long. The 42-inch width 
leaves very little waste. Four pieces are used. Plank the sides first, 
using glue and one-inch, No& 12 Stronghold nails at all battens, 
the stem and the transom. Another person inside with a weight against 
each batten will help in the fastening. The best procedure is to 
have a few friends hold the planking in place while you mark it off. 
Then trim the excess. I used a Homemaster Routo-Jig made by Porter 
Cable for this job. It's good for cutting all the planking because 
it cuts with a bit-like blade at high ~rpm and does not chatter 
the plywood like a saber saw.   When cut, the planking is clamped 
in place for a final and careful trimming. Then it is marked on the 
inside where it comes in contact with the transom, frames, keelson and 
all the battens. It may then be pre-drilled for the fastenings. The 
next step is to remove it and spread glue where it has been marked at 
the contact points. Then it is replaced and fastened. The bottom planking 
is applied in the same manner.   After planking, the bottom 
gets a layer of Fiberglas. The spray rails are first glued on the 
outside and fastened from the inside with screws. Then the chines are 
rounded off and the bottom is rough-sanded in preparation. Since the 
sides are also covered up to the spray rails, they are also rough-sanded 
in that area. The cloth is laid on one half of the bottom at 
a time. A 50-inch width is used on each side and it laps the keel line 
by about three inches. Lay the cloth in place and trim it to size. 
Then remove it and give the whole bottom a coat of resin. When the resin 
has hardened, mix up another batch with a pigment added if you wish. 
I used bright red, mixing the pigment in thoroughly before adding 
the hardener. Using a cheap brush, coat one side of the bottom with 
the resin and then apply the cloth. When the cloth is smooth, apply 
another coat of resin, spreading it with a paint roller. Be sure it is 
well saturated and then allow it to harden.   When the whole bottom 
has hardened, use a disk sander to feather the edges of the cloth 
at the keel line and near the spray rail. Then lay a three-inch-wide 
strip of cloth along the keel line from the transom to the point of 
the stem. Before the resin has hardened, screw a one-inch mahogany keel 
strip along the centerline. This protects the bottom in beaching. 
Fiberglas materials are available from Glass Plastic Supply Co&, 
1605 W& Elizabeth ave&, Linden, N& J&. They will also 
supply literature on application.   {The hull} is now turned 
over (with the help of about seven friends) and placed in a level, well-braced 
position. I set it on the Gator trailer. I laid three layers 
of glass cloth on the inside of the stem, also installing a bow eye 
at this time. For added strength, I also fastened a small block on 
each side of every frame and batten joint. Again, these blocks were 
set in resin-saturated glass cloth and nailed.   After trimming 
off the excess on the frames and transom which was used to fasten them 
to the jig at a working height, the top of the side planking is installed. 
This is made up of scraps left over from the sides and bottom. 
These flaring parts really help to keep the boat dry. When they're 
on, the top edges are planed even with the sheer batten.   The 
sides of the motor well run from the bottom battens to the top and from 
frame six to the transom, forming a real strong transom brace. Note 
another piece of wood six inches wide is fastened to the transom between 
these pieces.   The decking is quarter-inch mahogany marine 
plywood. All the flooring and the storage bin is half-inch exterior 
fir plywood. Most floor battens are glued and screwed to the flooring. 
The exception is where the flooring butts. These battens are glued 
and screwed to the frames.   With all deck battens in place, the 
bilge is cleaned and painted up to the floor line. Use one coat of 
Firzite and one coat of marine paint. Bottoms of the floorboards are 
also painted and the flooring is then screwed in place.   After 
the decking is on, the cabin sides are installed. They're followed 
by the front and rear bulkheads as illustrated. The windshield glass 
is shatterproof and Plexiglas is used in the cabin.   {Inside}, 
bunks are framed up and installed as indicated. A head is a handy 
thing to have and I installed one under a removable section of the 
port bunk. The sink in the hinged panel above the bunk drains into 
the head and a five-gallon water tank is mounted on the bulkhead above 
the sink. For padding the seats and bunks, I used Ensolite, Type 
~M. 
Lightweight, non-absorbent, fire resistant and dimensionally stable, 
it is easily bonded to the wood with contact cement. Available 
in **f sheets, it costs about a dollar a square foot. 
<You can build this vacation cottage yourself. It is a full scale, 
small, 
but efficient house that can become a year 'round retreat complete 
in every detail. Because of the unique design by the architect Egils 
Hermanovski, you can build most of it in your own home workshop 
in your spare time. Most of it is panelized and utilizes standard materials, 
and requires the use of only simple tools. On the following 
pages and in the following issues we take you every step of the way to 
your vacation cottage, from choosing the proper site to applying the 
final trim>.

In recognition of the growing trend for second homes, 
or vacation cottages, we have designed this one specifically with 
the family handyman in mind. It is a big project, not to be taken lightly. 
But each step has been broken down into easy stages, utilizing 
standard materials and simple tools, well within the capabilities of the 
handyman. 

#THE THEORY#

The idea behind our design is modular units, 
or panelization. Everything possible has been scaled to standard 
sizes and measurements of materials. Wall panels and structural timbers 
are standard as are windows and doors, making for a minimum of cutting. 
We have developed an ingenious method of interlocking these so 
that you can make the major part of your house in your own workshop, 
panel by panel, according to plan. Thus, when you have prepared your 
foundation and laid the floor, these can be trucked to the site and erected 
with a small crew of friends in a weekend. The roof timbers are 
precut and the panels standard so that the house can be completely enclosed 
in a matter of three or four days. Then you can do the finishing 
touches at your leisure. 

#A WARNING#

Due to the fact that building 
codes and regulations vary so much throughout the country, the first 
thing to do is to find out what, if any, they are. Close to a large 
city they might even specify the size of the nails used; in a remote 
section there might be no restrictions at all. This can usually 
be found out at the nearest town hall. At the same time check the electrical, 
plumbing, and sanitary requirements, as well as possible zoning 
regulations. Whether electricity and public water and sewers are available 
or not, check the local customs in the use of bottled or ~L-P 
gas (we give you alternatives later on). Be sure that this information 
is reasonably official and not just an unfounded opinion. If there 
are any major restrictions, they usually can be obtained in printed 
form. Where a building permit is required, find out what you must 
present when applying for one. In many cases, you must file a complete 
set of plans with the local building inspector. These will be available 
at cost from our Plans Department. 

#THE SITE#

Some general 
things to look for in a site, if you haven't already bought one, are 
accessibility, water drainage, and orientation. How are the roads, 
and how will they stand up? Is there evidence of wash-outs on the property; 
swampy areas or intermittent springs? A visit in the early 
spring after a thaw will be very informative. Note where the sun rises 
and sets, and ask which direction the prevailing winds and storms 
come from. Will the view be something you can live with? Don't 
worry too much about rocky or sloping terrain; we will take up alternative 
foundations later on. 

#THE MATERIALS#

With this first issue 
we give you a list of the materials needed to build the basic (~A 
version) and the expandable (~B version). This will be <for the 
shell of the house only> (roof, walls, and floor), and does not include 
the carport or balcony. This will permit you to get a <rough> 
estimate of how much the materials for the shell will cost. Bear in mind 
that this does <not> include interior panels for partitions, fancy 
flooring, appliances and fixtures, electrical wiring, and plumbing, 
all of which will be taken up in detail in later issues.   The 
wall panels are constructed of a framework of standard **f and **f of 
a good grade, free from structural faults. They should be as straight 
as possible, as this will effect their ability to mesh properly when 
the walls are erected. The outside surface of the solid units shall 
be of an exterior grade of panel board such as plywood, plastic coated 
panel board, high density particle board, asbestos-cement board, or 
any other product locally obtainable upon recommendation of your building 
supply dealer. The inner panels do not have to be weatherproof, and 
the choice will depend on the quality of finish desired. All panel 
board comes in standard **f foot size. It is recommended that panels 
be both glued as well as nailed to the frame. The fixed window panels 
with louvers should have a good grade of 1/8-inch double-strength glass 
set in a mastic glazing compound. The louvers are constructed as 
shown in the detail, with a drop door for ventilation. There are standard 
sliding glass windows in wood or aluminum frames for those panels 
requiring them. The door panels are designed to accommodate standard 
doors which should be of exterior grade. The filler panels for the gable 
ends are cut from full **f sheets as shown, leaving no wastage. The 
battens covering the joints are of **f stock and are applied after 
the walls are erected. All nails should be rustproof, and aluminum is 
highly recommended. Note: If 1/2-inch panel board is used inside 
and out, or 5/8-inch one side and 3/8-inch the other, and 1/8-inch glass 
is used, stock lumber in **f, **f, and **f can be used in making the 
glass panels. Other thicknesses may necessitate ripping a special 
size lumber for the glass trim. In any case, there is no special milling 
or rabbeting required for the panels.

With modern techniques of woodworking and the multitude of cutting 
tools, fixtures, and attachments available, the drill press has become 
a basic home workshop tool. The drill press consists of a vertical 
shaft (spindle) which is tapered or threaded on one end to hold a 
drill chuck, a tubular housing (quill) in which the spindle is mounted, 
a head in which the quill is mounted, a feed lever which moves the 
quill up or down, a power source, and a movable table upon which the work 
is placed. There is often a means of locking the quill and, on larger 
presses, the table can be tilted.   The size of the press is 
usually expressed in terms of chuck capacity (the maximum diameter tool 
shank it will hold) or distance between the spindle center and the 
column. A press with an 11 inch capacity lets you drill to the center 
of a 22 inch board or circle.   A new radial drill press with 
a 16 inch capacity has a tilting head that allows drilling to be done 
at any angle. The head is mounted on a horizontal arm that swivels on 
the supporting column to position the drill bit instead of the work. 

#SET-UP AND MAINTENANCE#

The drill press should be leveled and, depending 
on whether it is a bench or floor model, bolted securely to a 
sturdy bench or stand or screwed to the floor with lag or expansion screws. 
This will reduce vibration and increase accuracy.   A coat 
of paste wax or a rubdown with a piece of wax paper will protect the 
polished surface of the table; wiping with a slightly oiled cloth 
will discourage rusting of the column and quill. Presses not fitted 
with sealed spindle bearings will need a drop of oil now and then in 
the lubrication holes in the quill. The rest of the press should be kept 
clean by dusting with a clean rag or brush.   Be careful to 
keep the drive belt free of oil and grease. Belt tension is adjusted 
by manipulation of two locking bolts and a movable motor mount. Keep 
the belt just tight enough so the pulleys won't slip when pulled by 
hand; excess tension will only cause undue wear on the motor and spindle 
bearings. Most drill presses have a quill return spring that raises 
the spindle automatically when the feed lever is released and holds 
the quill in the raised position. The return spring tension may be 
adjusted to suit individual requirements by gripping the spring housing 
with a pair of pliers (to prevent the spring from unwinding when it 
is released), loosening the lock nut or screw, and rotating the housing 
until the desired tension is achieved. Turning the housing clockwise 
will reduce tension, counter-clockwise will increase it. 

#DON'T 
LOSE THE CHUCK KEY#

Some manufacturers have had the foresight to provide 
a socket for the chuck key; otherwise, you'll have to spend 
a few minutes to either attach a suitable spring clip somewhere on the 
press head or fit the key to a length of light chain and fasten to the 
bottom of the motor mount so that the key is out of the way when not 
in use. 

#FEEDS AND SPEEDS#

Drill speeds are important if you want 
a good job. Each cutting tool will operate best at a given speed, 
depending on the material worked. On most drill presses, it is impossible 
to get the exact speed, but you can come close by adjusting the 
drive belt on the step-cone pulleys. You will find a chart giving the 
various speed ratios available with your particular drill press somewhere 
in the instruction booklet that came with the tool. See the table 
on page 34 for exact recommended speeds. Generally, the larger the 
tool and the harder the material, the slower the speed.   Feed pressure 
is also of major importance. Too much pressure will force the 
tool beyond its cutting capacity and result in rough cuts and jammed 
or broken tools. Too light a feed, particularly with metal or other hard 
material, causes overheating of the tool and burning of the cutting 
edge. The best results will be obtained by matching the correct speed 
with a steady feed pressure that lets the tool cut easily at an even 
rate. 

#COMMON DRILLING TOOLS#

There are numerous types and styles 
of tools to drill holes. The most common are the twist drill, the 
solid center shaft with interchangeable cutting blades, the double spur 
bit, and the power wood bit. All will do a good job if sharp, but the 
twist drills don't cut quite as smoothly as the others, since they 
do not have the outlining spurs that sever the fibers before actual 
boring starts.   The adjustable fly cutter is very useful for cutting 
large diameter holes and can be used to cut exact-size discs by 
reversing the cutter blade. Since fly cutters are one sided and not 
balanced, they should be used at the slowest speed available, and fed 
very slowly to avoid binding. Fly cutters can fool you into putting 
your hand too close to the tool, so if you want to avoid nicked fingers, 
keep your hands well out of the way. 

#SIMPLE HOLE DRILLING OPERATIONS# 

When drilling all the way through a workpiece, always place a 
piece of scrap wood underneath. This will not only protect the work 
table, but also assure a clean breakthrough. Another method of assuring 
a clean hole is to first drill a small pilot hole all the way through, 
then drill half way with the dimensional bit, turn the piece over, 
and finish from the other side. In soft woods with pronounced grain, 
there is sometimes a tendency for the hole to wander, due to the varying 
hardness of the wood. In this case, drilling a small pilot hole or 
clamping the work will do much to improve accuracy.   When a hole 
is to be bored to a predetermined depth, mark the depth on the side 
of the stock, then run the bit down so that it is even with the mark. 
The depth gauge rod can now be set, and any number of holes bored to 
exact and identical depth.

The old-time bridges over the Merrimac River in Massachusetts 
are of unusual interest in many respects. For their length, their 
types of construction, their picturesque settings, and their literary 
associations, they should be known and remembered. In this sequence 
I shall write about them in the order of their erection.   The 
first bridge known to have been covered wholly or in part,- and perhaps 
the most interesting one, connected Newbury (now Newburyport) with 
Salisbury Point. Its building was first proposed in 1791, when a 
group of citizens, mostly Newburyport men, petitioned the General Court 
for an act of incorporation. This document began: _"NO& 
1 NEWBURY PORT, MAY 30TH, 1791_   "Whereas, a Bridge over 
Merrimack River, from the Land of Hon'ble Jonathan Greenleaf, 
Esquire, in Newbery, to Deer Island, and from said Island to Salisbury, 
would be of very extensive utility, by affording a safe Conveyance 
to Carriages, Teams 
and Travellers at all seasons of the year, 
and at all Times of Tide.   "We, the Subscribers, do agree, 
that as soon as a convenient Number of Persons have subscribed to 
this, or a similar Writing, We will present a petition to the Hon'ble 
General Court of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, praying 
for an Act incorporating into a Body politic the subscribers to such 
Writing with Liberty to build such a Bridge, and a Right to demand 
a Toll equal to that received at Malden Bridge, and on like Terms, 
and if such an Act shall be obtained, then we severally agree each 
with the others, that we will hold in the said Bridge the several shares 
set against our respective Names, the whole into two hundred shares 
being divided, and that we will pay such sums of Money at such Times 
and in such Manners, as by the said proposed Corporation, shall 
be directed and required".   This paper was signed by forty-five 
persons, subscribing a total of two hundred shares.   A month 
later the General Court served notice to the town of Newbury that 
the bridge was to be built. The matter was considered and reconsidered, 
and finally opposed, but in spite of many objections, the Court 
granted a charter on January 9, 1792. On November 26 of that year the 
bridge was completed and opened.   Timothy Palmer, who invented 
and later patented the arch type of construction for wooden bridges, 
was the genius who planned and supervised the building of the Essex, 
or "Deer Island" bridge although the actual work was carried 
out under the direction of William Coombs, who received @ 300 as 
recompense.

This two-part bridge is best described by Rev& Timothy 
Dwight, president of Yale College, in his "Travels in New-England 
and New-York", published in New Haven in 1821. He says 
of it:   "It consists of two divisions, separated by an island 
at a small distance from the southern shore. The division between 
the island and this shore, consists principally of an arch; whose 
chord is one hundred and sixty feet, and whose vortex is forty feet (it 
was actually 37 feet) above the high-water mark. In appearance and 
construction it resembles the Pascataqua bridge. The whole length of 
Essex bridge is one thousand and thirty feet and its breadth thirty-four. 
I have already mentioned that Mr& Timothy Palmer of Newburyport 
was the inventor of the arched bridges in this country. As Mr& 
Palmer was educated to house-building only, and had never seen a 
structure of this nature; he certainly deserves not a little credit 
for the invention".   It is hardly necessary to remind students 
of covered bridges that Timothy Palmer was born in 1751 in nearby 
Rowley; that he moved with his parents to West Boxford when he was 
sixteen years old; and was there apprenticed to a builder and architect, 
Moody Spofford. It was indeed a remarkable feat that a man 
who had had no experience of bridge building should have applied the 
principle of the arch, which appears in his famous bridges at Portsmouth, 
Haverhill, and Philadelphia.   The Essex Merrimack Bridge 
when first built was not covered. As far as we know, no American 
bridge had been thus protected in 1792. Richard S& Allen is the 
authority for the statement that the northern section was probably roofed 
by 1810. Its original appearance is shown in an engraving published 
in the "Massachusetts Magazine" in May 1793, which is reproduced 
herewith (Fig& 1). A brief description accompanying the picture 
says that the bridge contained more than 6000 tons of timber. Between 
the abutments on the Newbury shore and the south bank of Deer Island 
there was one span or arch measuring 160 feet; between the north 
shore of Deer Island and the Salisbury side there was an arch of 
113 feet and a series of piers with a draw forty feet long.   A 
dinner and celebration in honor of this piece of engineering took place 
July 4, 1793, in a tavern erected by the corporation on the island. 
It is said that the eccentric Timothy Dexter, who was one of the 
first share-holders, stood on the table and made a speech worthy of the 
occasion. The "Essex Journal" says that he "delivered an oration 
on the bridge, which for elegance of style, propriety of speech 
or force of argument, was truly Ciceronian". The reporter must have 
written this with tongue in cheek, because Dexter's oration could 
hardly be understood; and, although he later explained that he was 
talking French, it seems rather more likely that he had succumbed to 
the joys of the evening.   The north portion of the Essex bridge 
was well worth the cost of construction, although it proved to be twice 
what was estimated in the beginning. It stood in its original form 
until 1882. The southern half, however, on account of its underbracing, 
was considered by boat owners a menace to navigation. In 1810 it 
was torn down and replaced by a chain suspension bridge. This was built 
by John Templeman from plans submitted by James Finley of Fayette 
County, Pennsylvania. Timothy Palmer had general supervision 
of the work.   An advertisement in the "Newburyport Herald", 
December 21, 1810, shows Palmer in a new light as an expert on chain 
bridges. It reads: _"CHAIN BRIDGES_   "Information 
is hereby given that Mr& Timothy Palmer of Newburyport, Mass& 
has agreed to take charge of the concerns of the Patentees of the 
Chain Bridge, in the states of Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont, 
Rhode Island, and Connecticut, so far as relates to the sale 
of Patent rights and the construction of Chain Bridges.   "Mr& 
Palmer will attend to any applications relating to bridges and if 
desired will view the proposed site, and lay out and superintend the 
work, or recommend a suitable person to execute it.   John 
Templeman

"Approved, Timothy Palmer"   This chain bridge proved 
less durable than the wooden arch on the Salisbury end. It fell, 
February 6, 1827, carrying with it a horse and wagon, two men and four 
oxen. The horse and men were saved, but the oxen drowned. In spite 
of this catastrophe, the bridge was rebuilt on the same plan and opened 
again on July 17, 1827. This second chain bridge was 570 feet long, 
had two thirty-foot towers and a draw, and a double roadway.

The Essex bridge was a toll crossing until 1868, when the County 
Commissioners laid out all the Merrimack bridges as highways.

Sturdy and strong after more than a century of continuous 
use, the old covered, wooden bridge that spans the Tygartis Valley River 
at Philippi will have a distinctive part in the week-long observance 
of the first land battle of the Civil War at its home site, May 
28th to June 3rd. Colonel Frederick W& Lander, impersonated, 
will again make his break-neck ride down the steep declivity of Talbott's 
(now College) Hill and thunder across the bridge to join Colonel 
Benjamin F& Kelley's (West) Virginia Infantry, then swarming 
through the streets in pursuit of the retreating Confederates. 
He was closely followed by the Ohio and Indiana troops- thus the 
old bridge has another distinction; that of being the first such structure 
secured by force of arms in the war of the '60s.   The 
bridge has survived the natural hazards of the elements, war, fire, 
and floods, as well as injuries incident to heavy traffic, for more than 
a hundred years. Twice during the Civil War it was saved from destruction 
by the opposing armies by the pleas and prayers of a local minister. 
It still stands as a monument to the engineering skills of the 
last century and still serves in the gasoline age to carry heavy traffic 
on U&S& Route 250- the old Beverly and Fairmont Turnpike. 
It is one of the very few, if not the only surviving bridge of 
its type to serve a main artery of the U&S& highway system, thus 
it is far more than a relic of the horse and buggy days.   This 
covered, wooden bridge is so closely identified with the first action 
in the early morning of June 3, 1861, and with subsequent troop movements 
of both armies in the Philippi area that it has become a part 
and parcel of the war story. So frequently has pictures of the bridge 
appeared in books and in national publications that it vies with the 
old John Brown Fort at Harpers Ferry as the two nationally best known 
structures in West Virginia.   Completed and opened for traffic 
in 1852, the bridge was designed and built by Lemuel Chenoweth 
and his brother, Eli, of Beverly. The Chenoweth brothers were experienced 
bridge builders, and against the competition of other, and better 
known, bridge designers and builders they had constructed nine of 
the covered, wooden bridges on the Parkersburg and Staunton Turnpike 
a dozen years before, as well as many other bridges for several counties. 
The Philippi bridge, however, was the Chenoweth master piece, 
with its 139-foot, dual lane, span- and it stands today as a monument 
to its builders. Never rebuilt, the bridge was strengtened in 1938 
by two extra piers, a concrete floor, and a walk-way along the upper 
side in order to care for modern traffic.   During the war it 
was in constant use by the wagon trains transporting supplies from the 
railhead at Grafton to the troops operating in the interior. Union 
soldiers at times used it for sleeping quarters to escape from the 
rain or other inclement weather, and some of them left momentoes of their 
stay by carving their names and small tokens on its walls and beams.

But what the elements could not do was seriously threatened 
when Brigadier General William E& (Grumble) Jones reached Philippi 
while on the famous Jones-Imboden raid in May, 1863. General 
Jones was fresh from a long series of bridge burnings, including the 
long bridge at Fairmont, and, after seeing a great drove of horses 
and cattle he had collected safely across the bridge, he sent his men 
to work piling combustibles in and around it. Reverend Joshual Corder, 
a Baptist minister, gathered a few citizens of Southern sympathies, 
to call on Jones and plead with him to spare the structure; he 
reasoned and argued, pointing out that Jones or other Confederate 
commanders would need it should troops pass that way in retreat. Jones 
relented, he did not order his men to apply the torch- the drove of 
livestock was driven up the valley, via Beverly, and across the mountains 
to feed and serve the Confederate army, while Jones and his raiders 
turned toward Buckhannon to join forces with Imboden. 
Again Reverend Corder saved the bridge when Union soldiers planned 
to destroy it, after filling its two lanes with hay and straw- but 
for what reason is not recorded nor remembered, certainly not because 
of pressure from an opposing Confederate force. On the second occasion 
it took prayers as well as reason to dissuade the soldiers from their 
purpose.   Centering around this historic old structure, a group 
of public-spirited Barbour County citizens have organized and planned 
a week-long series of events, beginning on May 28th and continuing 
through June 3rd, to observe most appropriately the centennial of 
the first land engagement of the Civil War at Philippi.

It is a good eight years now since each of us acquired a swimming 
pool- eight enlightening, vigorous, rigorous, not wholly unrewarding 
years. We have learned a lot- a dash of hydrochemistry here, a 
bit about plumbing and pump-priming there. We have had sound grounding 
in the principles of the mailed-fist-in-velvet-glove school of diplomacy. 
We have become amateur insurance experts and fine-feathered yard 
birds. True, our problems have lessened a bit as more and more of 
our neighbors have built their own pools, thereby diluting our spectacular 
attractions. But problems cling to pools, as any pool owner knows. 
So our innate generosity of spirit prompts us to share our trials, 
errors and solutions with any who are taking the pool plunge for the 
first time- in the pious hope that some may profit from our experience. 

#WHERE TO PUT IT#

Position may not be everything, but in the 
case of a pool it can certainly contribute difficulties, social and/or 
physical. We speak from varying viewpoints. One of us has a pool set 
in a wooded area very near the house. The other has his pool far away 
from the house in a field high on a hill.   If you are dreaming 
of a blue, shimmering pool right outside your living room windows, 
close your eyes firmly and fill in the picture with lots and lots of 
children, damp towels, squashed tubes of suntan oil and semi-inflated 
plastic toys. You are likely to be nearer the truth.   You can 
also see that the greater the proximity of the pool to your main living 
quarters, the greater the chance for violation of family privacy, annoying 
noise and the let's-make-your-house-our-club attitude. On the 
other hand, out-of-sight does not lead to out-of-mind when children 
cannot be easily observed and you have to make a long trek to reach the 
pool.   Another dilemma: As picturesque as a sylvan pond in 
the forest may be, trees offer a leaf and root hazard to the well-being 
of a pool. Yet a grassy approach can turn a pool into a floating 
lawn every time the grass is mowed.   As in choosing a wife, it 
is only sensible to consider also how appealing a pool is likely to be 
in bad weather as well as in good. In the colder climes, for instance, 
you will have to live through the many unglamorous winter months when 
your pool will hardly look its best. It may be a big hole in the ground 
filled with salt hay, or an ice floe studded with logs. Even a 
neat, plastic-covered plunge is not exactly a joy to behold. (We do, 
however, recommend those patented covers to prevent both people and junk- 
flora and fauna generally- from accidentally wintering in the 
pool.)   Probably no location for a pool is perfect on all counts. 
Naturally it will be dictated to a large extent by the shape and 
size of your land. But if space and money are no problem and small children 
are not on hand every day, it is certainly more restful to have 
your pool and entertainment area removed from the immediate environs 
of the house. And a good several feet around the pool should be neither 
greensward nor woods, but good hard pavement.   The placement 
of your pool, however, will not of itself solve the two major problems 
of pool owning- those that involve your social life and those pertaining 
to safety. Coping with them demands stern discipline- of yourself 
as well as of your family, neighbors, friends and anyone you ever 
talked to on a transoceanic jet.   Eight years ago while we were 
going through the mud-sweat-and-tears construction period, we were 
each solaced by the vision of early morning dips and evening home-comings 
to a cool family collected around the pool with a buffet table laid 
out nearby for the lord and master's delectation. But not even our 
first pool-side 
gatherings came anywhere near those rosy fantasies. 
We seemed to be witnessing the population explosion right in our own 
backyards. Our respective families looked as if they had quadrupled. 
Had we taken a lien on a state park? Not at all. We had merely been 
discovered by the pool sharks. We were in business!   From 
proud pool-owners to perpetual hosts and handymen was a short step- 
no more than the change from city clothes to trunks. Nai^ve of us, 
maybe, but the results of our impulsive invitations to "come over 
next summer and swim in our new pool" were both unexpected and unsettling. 

#OUR BOOK OF ETIQUETTE#

After the first few weeks, it was 
obvious that rules had to be made, laid down and obeyed- even if our 
popularity ratings became subnormal as a result. So rules we made, 
in unabashed collusion. Since our viewpoints in this respect coincided 
precisely, we present the fruits of our efforts herewith as a single 
social code for pool owners.   First and foremost: No one- 
no, not anyone- in the family is allowed to issue blanket invitations 
to his or her own circle. Just short of forty lashes we finally managed 
to coerce our children to this view. Their friends and ours are 
welcome to share the pool, but on our terms and at our times. 
No friends are to arrive without an invitation or without at least telephoning 
beforehand.   No ringers, either- even if they are trailing 
legitimate invitees. We want to know when the Potlatches telephone 
exactly how many they are planning to bring, so that we won't 
end up with a splashing mob that looks like Coney Island in August.

No young children may come without adults except for a specific, 
organized, chaperoned party. And accompanying adults are urged to 
keep an alert and sensible eye on their responsibilities. A gaggle 
of gabbling mothers, backs to the pool, is no safeguard.   No bottle 
pool is tolerated- bottle pool being our lingo for those who come 
to swim and sink into our bar while protesting that they can only dunk 
and run. (Sanity, solvency and relations with our wine merchant took 
a beating that first summer as we inadvertently became the neighborhood 
free-drink stop.)   We designated one day a week as the time 
when neighborhood teen-agers might swim at definite hours. This has 
saved us from constant requests seven days a week and made us feel less 
brutal to the young "less fortunate" than ours.   We also 
worked out logistics for Sunday afternoon swimmers who arrive two hours 
early with their weekend guests while we are still enjoying an alfresco 
lunch <en famille>. We gently usher them to an island of tables 
and chairs strategically placed on the far side of the pool where 
they can amuse each other until we get ready to merge sides.   All 
dressing (undressing to be more exact) must be done in our small bath 
house or at the swimmers' homes. (To avoid any possible excuse for 
a dripping parade through your house, it is a good idea to have a telephone 
extension near the pool as well as a direct outdoor route between 
the pool and the parking area.) We do, however, provide a limited 
number of extra suits, mainly for children, and we stock extra towels 
and a few inexpensive bathing conveniences. Life-preservers, the buckle-on 
kapok-filled kind, are held in readiness, too, for the very young. 

#PRESERVING LIFE AND LIMB#

Safety rules, of course, are more 
important than all the others put together.   In many localities, 
now, the law requires all pools to be fenced, usually to a minimum 
height of 5 feet. But fenced or unfenced, no pool-side is the place 
for running or horseplay. We allow no underwater endurance contests, 
either, or inexpert versions of water polo.   Diving boards must 
have non-skid surfaces (coco matting takes an awful beating from chlorine 
and rots quickly, but grit-impregnated paints are excellent). And 
divers must be enjoined to look before they leap, either on top of 
someone else or onto a pool edge.   Our pools also have wide, shallow 
steps- for the benefit of the littlest swimmers who can thus 
be introduced to the water with far greater safety than a ladder affords.

All bottles must be kept a safe distance away from the pool 
and drinking glasses are banned in favor of plastic or metal cups.

When you first acquire a pool, we earnestly recommend- for your 
own mental health- a good long chat with your insurance agent. You 
should be prepared to cope with any pitfall such as plunges into empty 
pools or shallow ends and all manner of winter as well as summer lawsuits.

Soignee pools, alas, do not just happen. They are the 
result of a constant and careful contest with the elements. Unless 
you want to make your wife a pool widow and to spend a great many of your 
leisure hours nursing your pool's pristine purity, its care and 
feeding- from ~pH content to filtering and vacuuming- is best left 
to a weekly or bi-monthly professional service. Of course, if your 
pool is close to the house, your wife can always add it to her housekeeping 
chores (you hope). Or you can make pool care the price of swimming 
for teen-agers. Even so, every pool owner, in case of emergency, 
should have some idea of what makes things work. A brief course in 
hydraulics from the pool builders may well be appreciated in a future 
crisis. 

#PRESERVING THE POOL#

A sudden high rise in temperature 
will turn your pool poison green overnight. You need more chlorine. The 
walls feel slippery. You need algaecide. With or without professional 
help, you will have to be able to do some of these jobs yourself 
unless you have a full-time pool nurse.   You should see to it 
that the trap, the dirt-catcher in front of the filter, is always clean. 
A pool is no place for a shut trap.   You should firmly insist 
that no bobby pins or hair pins be worn in the water. When shed, 
they leave rust marks.   You can hope against hope that come spring 
cleaning, your fair-weather friends will lend a hand at scrubbing 
and furbishing. It has happened.   Many hours of spring cleaning 
will be saved, however, if you remove the main drain grate when you 
close the pool season in the fall. As the pool is emptied, stand by 
to brush down the walls and bottom while they are still wet. Much of 
the dirt and leaf stain is easily removed when damp, but requires dynamite 
if allowed to dry. If you have a 6- to 8-inch drain pipe, you may 
easily wash out all the debris when the grate is out. Of course, when 
your 6-inch torrent of water is released, it may cause a lot of comment 
as it passes through or by neighboring properties. Do not forget 
this possibility.   If your pool is located on or near sloping 
ground, it may have natural drainage which is certainly more desirable 
than to be faced with the annual expense and labor of first pumping 
out the water and then scooping out all the debris.   It may be 
true that pool lighting dramatizes an evening scene, but lights also attract 
all the insect life for miles around. Once on the water, these 
little visitors seldom leave, and this adds to your filtering and vacuuming 
problems as well as providing a slapping good time for all those 
present. Often one floodlight high in a tree will provide all the light 
you need at much less expense.   Our experience has taught 
us that it pays to buy the best equipment possible, from pipes to 
brushes. 
Follow pool-care instructions to the letter, and be sure that one 
person (in the family or not) is regularly responsible for each aspect 
of the job, with no chance for claiming, "It wasn't my turn".

Never let anyone not in the know take a turn at the valves- 
even if the little boys do want to play space ship. You may find yourself 
hitting bottom, literally, as you discover that water is running 
out even while you are putting it in.

DRAW a line across the country at the latitude of lower Pennsylvania. 
Any house built now below that line without air conditioning 
will be <obsolete in 10 years>. Fortunately, it is the ~FHA 
which has arrived at this conclusion, for it means that cooling equipment 
of all kinds may now be included in a mortgage, and thus acquired 
with a minimum of financial stress. Even if you live above that line, 
the ~FHA will back you, for they have decided that the inclusion 
of air conditioning in <all> new homes is a good thing and should 
be encouraged.   New simplified packaged units, recently devised 
prefabricated glass-fiber ducts, and improved add-on techniques make 
it possible to acquire a system for an 1800-square-foot house for as 
little as $600 to $900. Two men can often do the installation in a 
day. You can install it yourself- this is a central system that will 
cool <every part> of your house. Its upkeep? No less an authority 
than the ~FHA concurs that the savings air conditioning makes 
possible more than offset its operating costs. _IS IT WORTH-WHILE?_ 
Home air conditioning has come a long way from the early days 
of overcooled theaters and the thermal shock they inflicted. We know 
now that a 15-degree differential in temperature is the maximum usually 
desirable, and accurate controls assure the comfort we want. 
We know, too, that health is never harmed by summer cooling. On the 
contrary, there are fewer colds and smaller doctor bills. The filtered 
air benefits allergies, asthma, sinus, hay fever. Control of temperature 
and humidity is a godsend to the aged and the invalid. Heart conditions 
and high blood pressure escape the stresses brought on by oppressive 
heat.   Housekeeping is easier. The cleaner air means 
less time spent pushing a vacuum, fewer trips to the dry cleaners, lighter 
loads for the washing machine. The need for reupholstering, redecorating, 
repainting becomes more infrequent. Clothes hold their shape 
better, and mildew and rust become almost forgotten words.   It 
will improve your disposition. When you're less fatigued, things 
just naturally look brighter. The children can have their daytime naps 
and hot meals, and be put to bed on schedule in shade-darkened rooms. 
You'll sleep longer and better, too, awake refreshed and free of 
hot weather nerves.   You can forget about screens, and leave the 
storm windows up all year around.   Best of all, central air conditioning 
is something you can afford. Like its long-lived cousin, 
the refrigerator, a conditioner can be expected to last 20 to 25 years 
or more. That brings its per-year cost down mighty low. _FOR ANY 
HOUSE._ No matter what style your home is, ranch, two-story, Colonial 
or contemporary, central air conditioning is easily installed. The 
equipment won't take up valuable space either. It can go in out-of-the-way 
waste space.   But there's no denying that the easiest 
and most economical way to get year-'round whole-house air conditioning 
is when you build. If that's done, the house can be designed 
and oriented for best operation, and this can mean savings both in the 
size of equipment and in the cost of the house itself.   If you 
can't see your way clear to have summer cooling included when building, 
by all means <make provision for its easy adding later>. Manufacturers 
have designed equipment for just such circumstances, and your 
savings over starting from scratch will be substantial.   If your 
house is to have a forced warm air system, cooling can be a part of 
it. This costs less than having a completely separate cooling system, 
for your regular heating ductwork, filters and furnace blower do double 
duty for cooling. You can get year-'round air conditioners in the 
same variety of styles in which you buy a furnace alone- high or 
low boy, horizontal or counterflow. The units can be installed in basement, 
attic, crawlspace, or in a closet located in the living area. The 
cooling coil is located in the furnace's outlet. From the coil 
small copper pipes connect to a weatherproof refrigeration section set 
in the yard, garage, carport, or basement.   If you plan to add 
cooling later to your heating system, there are things to watch for. 
Be sure ducts that require insulation get it when they are installed. 
They may be inaccessible later. <Be sure your ducts and blower are 
big enough to handle cooling>. This is especially important if you 
live in a mild-winter zone. <Be sure you get a perimeter heating system>, 
and diffusers that will work as well for cooling as they do for 
heating.   You can get a hot water system that will also work 
for cooling your house. For cooling, chilled water is circulated instead 
of hot water. Instead of radiators you'll have cooling-heating 
units, each with its own thermostat. These systems are more expensive 
than year-'round forced air systems. The minimum cost for an average 
one-story, 7-room house with basement, is likely to run $1500 above 
the cost of the heating alone. _SEPARATE SYSTEMS._ If the problems 
of combining cooling with your heating are knotty, it may be cheaper 
to plan on a completely separate cooling system. The simplest kind 
of separate system uses a single, self-contained unit. It is, in effect, 
an oversize room conditioner equipped with prefab glass-fiber ducts 
to distribute the cooled, cleaned, dehumidified air where it is wanted.

In a long, rambling ranch, two such units can be installed, 
one serving the living area, the other the sleeping zone. In a two-story 
house, one unit may be installed in the basement to serve the first 
floor, another in the attic to cool the second. In each case, having 
separate systems for living and sleeping areas has the advantage of 
permitting individual zone control. _THE HEAT PUMP._ One of the 
more remarkable of the new cooling systems is one that can be switched 
to heating. As you know, a conditioner makes indoor air cool by pumping 
the heat out of it and then releasing this heat outdoors. A relatively 
simple switching arrangement reverses the cycle so that the machine 
literally runs backward, and the heat is extracted from outdoor air 
and turned indoors.   Up until recently, this heat pump method 
of warming air was efficient only in areas of mild winters and when 
outside temperatures were above 40 degrees. Now, the machine has been 
improved to a point where it is generally more economical than oil heat 
at temperatures down to 15 degrees. You can get this added heating 
feature for as little as $200 more than the price of cooling alone.

Consider it as a standby setup, at negligible cost, for those 
emergencies when the furnace quits, a blizzard holds up fuel delivery, 
or for cool summer mornings or evenings when you don't want to start 
up your whole heating plant. _WHAT SIZE CONDITIONER?_ How large 
a cooling unit you need, and the method of its installation, depends 
on a variety of factors. Among other things, besides the nature of 
your house and how much heat finds its way into its various rooms from 
the outside, it will depend upon your personal habits and the makeup 
of your family. Families with children usually don't want the house 
quite so cool. If you are a party thrower, you may need added capacity. 
The body is a heat machine, and 20 to 25 guests can easily double 
your cooling load.   Cooling requirements are best expressed in 
terms of ~BTU's. A ~BTU is a unit of heat, and the ~BTU 
rating of a conditioner refers to how much heat your machine can 
pump <out> of your house in an hour. A very rough rule of thumb is 
that, under favorable conditions, you'll need 15 ~BTU's of cooling 
for every square foot of your house. This is if outdoor temperatures 
have a high average of 95 degrees. You'll need more if the high 
average is above that, less if it's below.   Coolers are also 
rated by tons. A ton of cooling compares to the cooling you get by 
melting a ton of ice. By accepted definition, a 1-ton conditioner will 
provide 12,000 ~BTU of cooling in one hour.   You may find 
a conditioner rated by horsepower. It is generally an inaccurate 
method of rating, for the horsepower is that of the compressor motor, 
and many other components beside it determine how much cooling you'll 
get. A 1-~hp conditioner, for example, may vary in effectiveness 
from under 8,000 ~BTU to well over 10,000 ~BTU.   The 
safest procedure is to let your builder estimate the size of the unit 
you need, rather than trying to do this yourself.   Don't urge 
your builder to give you a little extra cooling capacity just to be 
sure you have enough. Better to have your equipment slightly undersized 
than too big. Here's why:   Reducing humidity is often 
as important as cooling. An oversize unit will cool off your house quickly, 
then shut down for a long period. Before it cycles on again, humidity 
can build up and make you uncomfortable even though the temperature 
is still low. With a unit of the right size, a compressor will 
run continuously during hot weather, reducing humidity as evenly as it 
does temperature. _MONEY-SAVING TIPS._ Attention to details can 
cut in half the size unit you need and pare operating expense proportionately. 
A well-designed, 1200-square-foot house can be comfortably cooled 
and heated for as little as $128 a year, or $11 a month. 
If you have a house which heat doesn't penetrate easily, your unit 
will have less heat to remove. Keep the direct sun from reaching the 
house and you've won the first battle. In a new house, generous roof 
overhangs are a logical and effective solution. If the house you plan 
to buy or build won't have big overhangs, you can still do a fair 
job of keeping the sun off walls and windows with properly designed 
trellises, fences and awnings.   Shade trees, too, are a big help, 
so keep them if you can. Drawn blinds and draperies do some good, 
but not nearly as much as shading devices on the outside of the house.

The more directly the sun strikes walls and roof, the greater 
its heat impact. The way a house is set on its lot can therefore influence 
how much cooling you're going to need. A shift in the walls, 
or a change in the roof slope, so the sun hits them more obliquely, can 
save you money.   You can use heat-absorbing glass to stop the 
sun, double glass and insulated glass to combat condensation. <Restrict 
large glass areas to the north and south sides of the house>. 
They're easier to shade there. An attic space above insulation makes 
a house easier to cool. You'll even gain by putting your water 
heater outside the conditioned space, and using an electric range instead 
of a gas one. Gas adds to the moisture load.   Insulate, weatherstrip, 
double-glaze to the maximum. In insulation, the numbers to 
remember are 6-4-2. They stand for 6 inches of mineral wool insulation 
in the ceiling, 4 inches in the side walls, 2 inches in the floors. 
Such extra-thick insulation not only permits a much smaller cooling 
installation, but will continue to reduce operating expenses both in 
heating and cooling. A light-colored roof will reduce sun heat by 50 
per cent.   It costs two to three times as much to remove a ~BTU 
in summer as it does to add one in winter, so every solitary ~BTU 
is worth attention. You'll foil them in droves, along with 
their pal humidity, by having and using a kitchen range exhaust fan, a 
bathroom ventilator for when you shower, and an outside vent for the 
clothes drier. _KEEPING CONDITIONERS QUIET._ It's no use pretending 
that all conditioners are quiet, but the noise they produce can 
be kept to a minimum. Good workmanship is important in the installation, 
so if you're doing your own contracting, don't award the job on 
the basis of price alone.   Avoid attic placement directly above 
a bedroom. 
##

MOST RECREATION WORK calls for a good deal of pre-planning. 
This is particularly true in site selection. You must know before 
you start what the needs and objectives of your organtion are; you 
must have a list of requirements on where, how many, and what type sites 
are needed. With such a program you can make constructive selections 
of the best sites available.   Begin the examination of a site 
with a good map and aerial photos if possible. These are becoming more 
and more available through the work of counties and other government 
agencies. The new editions of topographic maps being made by the federal 
government are excellent for orienting yourself to the natural 
features of the site. These are inexpensive and available from the U& 
S& Geological Society, Washington 25, D& C&. In recent 
years many counties and the U& S& Forest Service have taken 
aerial photos which show features in detail and are very good for planning 
use. Most counties also have maps available from the county engineer 
showing roads and other features and from the assessor's office 
showing ownerships of land.   Inspect the site in the field during 
the time of the year when the area will be most heavily used for 
recreation. This gives you a better opportunity to get the feel of the 
climate conditions, the exposure to the sun and wind, the water interests, 
etcetera, which vary greatly with the seasons. It is usually helpful 
to make a sketch map in the field, showing the size and location 
of the features of interest and to take photographs at the site. These 
are a great aid for planning use back at the office. ##

FOR 
SITE PLANNING WORK, it is best to have a qualified and experienced 
park planner to carry through the study. However, there is also much 
to be gained by making use of the abilities of the local people who are 
available and interested in recreation. County judges, commissioners, 
engineers, assessors, and others who have lived in the area for a 
long time may have valuable knowledge regarding the site or opinions 
to offer from their varied professional experiences. A visit to the site 
by a group of several persons can usually bring out new ideas or verify 
opinions most helpful to the planning study of any recreation area.

How much study is required? This, of course, depends on 
the character of the site itself, the previous experience of the investigator, 
and the number of factors needed to arrive at a good decision. 
It is too easy for the inexperienced person to make a quick 
judgment 
of a few values of the area and base a decision on these alone. Usually 
there are more factors to good site planning than first impressions. 
A site may be a rundown slum or a desolate piece of desert in appearance 
today but have excellent potentials for the future with a little 
development or water. The same is true of areas which at first look 
good because of a few existing recreation features but may actually 
be poor areas to develop for general public use.   In looking for 
the best sites available that meet the requirements, you need information 
to compare the site with others. You need answers to four important 
questions.   @ What are the existing recreation features?

@ How well can the site be developed?   @ How useful 
will it be to the public?   @ Is this site available?

Check the quantity and quality of all of the recreation interests 
already existing at the site. Naturally, a park site with scenic 
views, a good lake, trees, and sand dunes, will attract more people 
than a nearby area with only trees and dunes. Quality is vitally important. 
Frontage on a body of clear, clean water will be vastly different 
from the same amount of frontage on polluted water. Some recreation 
features, such as scenic values and water interest, also have greater 
overall value than other interests.   One of the most desirable 
features for a park are beautiful views or scenery. It may be distant 
views of a valley or the mountains or natural features such as a 
small lake, colorful rock formations, or unusual trees. A site which 
overlooks a harbor or river may offer interest in the activities of boating 
traffic. An area on the coast may have relaxing views of the surf 
rolling in on a beach. A site may also be attractive just through 
the beauty of its trees and shrubs. Note extent of these interests and 
how available they will be for the public to enjoy.   Water interest 
is one of the most valuable factors you can find for a recreation 
site. Most park planners look to water frontage for basic park areas. 
This follows naturally since frontage on an ocean, stream, or lake 
provides scenic values and opportunities for the very popular recreation 
activities of bathing, fishing, boating, and other water sports. 
A body of water is usually the center of interest at parks which attract 
the greatest picnic and camping use. It also cools the air in summer 
and nourishes the trees and wild life.   The amount of water 
frontage, the quantity and quality of the water, and the recreation 
afforded by it are important. A restricted frontage may be too crowded 
an area for public use. The quantity of water flow may be critical; 
a stream or pond which is attractive in the springtime may become stagnant 
or dry in late summer. If the site is on a reservoir, the level 
of the water at various seasons as it affects recreation should be 
studied. Check the quality of the water. A stream which has all of 
its watershed within a national forest or other lands under good conservation 
practices is less likely to be affected by pollution than one 
passing through unrestricted logging or past an industrial area. Other 
factors, such as water temperature, depth of water, the fish life it 
supports, wave action, flooding, etcetera, will affect its recreation 
value. ##

OTHER NATURAL FEATURES which can be of high interest 
are the forests, canyons, mountains, deserts, seacoast, beaches, sand 
dunes, waterfalls, springs, etcetera with which the area is blessed. 
Just as the national and state parks place emphasis on features which 
are of national or state significance, counties should seek out these 
features which are distinctive of their area. Although the site may 
not contain the features themselves, there are often opportunities 
to include them as additional interest to the site. The route to the 
park may lead people past them or display views of them. A group of 
native trees or plants which are outstanding in a particular county can 
be featured at the site.   The fish, animals, and birds which 
may be found at the site are another interest. Fishing interest calls 
for a check of the species found, quantity and size, the season they 
are available, and the stocking program of the fish commission. Animals 
may be present at the site or provide hunting in nearby areas. The 
site may be on one of the major flyways of migratory birds or have its 
own resident bird life. Clams, crabs, and other marine life may add 
interest at coastal areas. ##

EACH AREA has its own historical 
interests with which much can be done. Park visitors are always 
eager to learn more about the area they are in. The historical sign 
tells its story, but nothing gets interest across as well as some of the 
original historical items or places themselves which still have the 
character of the period covered. Notice should be taken of unusual rock 
formations, deposits, or shapes of the earth's crust in your region. 
Those which tell a story of the earth's formation in each area 
can add geological interest to the recreation sites. An old shipwreck, 
a high dam, an old covered bridge, a place to find agates or other 
semi-precious stones or a place to pan gold, etcetera may be of interest. 
Some areas may provide archeological values such as ancient Indian 
village sites or hunting areas, caves, artifacts, etcetera. 
How well can the site be developed? Look at the physical features 
of the land to determine how desirable it is for use, what can be done 
to correct the faults, and what it will cost to make the area meet your 
needs in comparison to other sites. Many things need to be checked: 

#SIZE AND SHAPE#- The size of the area alone can be a determining 
factor. An area may be too small for the needs of the project. 
Areas should be large enough to include the attractions, have ample 
space for the use of facilities needed, and have room around the edges 
to protect the values of the area from encroachment by private developments. 
Acreage in excess of the minimum is good practice as recreation 
areas are never too large for the future and it is often more economical 
to operate one large area than several small ones.   Shape 
of the area is also related to the use attractions and needs of the 
development. A large picnic area or camping development is most efficient 
in shape as a square or rectangle several hundred feet in width 
in preference to a long narrow area less than one hundred feet wide. This 
is true because of savings in utility lines and the fact that your 
buildings have a useful radius equal in all directions. However, a 
narrow strip may be very practical for small developments, or to provide 
additional stream frontage for a fisherman's trail, or include 
scenic strips within the park unit. 

#ADJOINING AREAS#- The values 
of the site may be affected by the appearance of the adjoining lands, 
ownership and use of the land, and the utilities available there. For 
instance, a site adjoining other publicly owned lands, such as a national 
forest or a public road, may be desirable, whereas a site next 
to an industrial plant might not. The utilities available nearby may 
provide a savings in the cost of extending electricity or water to the 
site. 

#TOPOGRAPHY#- Topography is very important. Check the 
elevation of the ground, degree and direction of slopes, drainage, rock 
outcrops, topsoil types and quality, as well as subsoil. Nearly level 
areas are required for parking areas, beaches, camp areas, ballfields, 
etcetera. Determine how much topography limits useful area or what 
the costs of earth moving or grading might be. 

#WATER#- In addition 
to its recreation interests, water is needed for drinking, sanitation, 
and irrigation. The quantity and quality of water sources is 
often a big factor in site selection. The area may provide good springs 
or opportunities for a well or be near to municipal water lines. Figure 
the cost of providing water to the use areas. 

#PLANTS#- The 
existing plant growth calls for thorough checking. Look at the trees 
as to size and interest, the amount of shade they provide, how healthy 
they are, the problems of maintenance, fire hazards, wind throw, 
etcetera.   An area may have been partially logged and requires 
removal of stumps or clean up. Some shrubs may be of good landscaping 
value, other areas of brush may need to be cleared. The extent and location 
of open areas is noted. 

#EXPOSURE#- How much will wind, 
rain, sun, and temperature affect the use? An area sheltered from 
strong winds may be highly desirable for recreation use. The direction, 
velocity, and season of these winds should be noted as to just how 
they will affect the recreation use and your maintenance and operation 
of the area. Lack of rainfall and extreme temperatures may call for 
the development of shade and irrigation of a site to make it useable. 
Sometimes, you have a choice of exposure for sites where the topography 
or trees of the area will provide afternoon shade, morning sun, or 
whatever may be most desirable for the use intended. 

#IMPROVEMENTS#- 
Some areas may already have been improved and contain buildings, 
roads, utilities, cleared land, etcetera which may raise the cost of 
the site.

Your invitation to write about Serge Prokofieff to honor his 
70th Anniversary for the April issue of <Sovietskaya Muzyka> is 
accepted with pleasure, because I admire the music of Prokofieff; 
and with sober purpose, because the development of Prokofieff personifies, 
in many ways, the course of music in the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics.   The Serge Prokofieff whom we knew in the 
United States of America was gay, witty, mercurial, full of pranks 
and <bonheur>- and very capable as a professional musician. These 
qualities endeared him to both the musicians and the social-economic 
<haute monde> which supported the concert world of the post-World 
War /1, era. Prokofieff's outlook as a composer-pianist-conductor 
in America was, indeed, brilliant.   Prokofieff's <Classical> 
Symphony was hailed as an ingenious work from a naturally gifted 
and well-trained musician still in his twenties. To the Traditionalists, 
it was a brilliant satire on modernism; to the Neo-Classicists, 
it was a challenge to the pre-war world. What was it to Prokofieff? 
A tongue-in-cheek stylization of 18th-Century ideas; a trial 
balloon to test the aesthetic climate of the times; a brilliant <piece 
de resistance?> Certainly its composer was an ascending star 
on a new world horizon.   I heard the <Classical> Symphony 
for the first time when Koussevitzky conducted it in Paris in 1927. 
All musical Paris was there. Some musicians were enthusiastic, some 
skeptical. I myself was one of the skeptics (35 years ago). I remember 
Ernest Bloch in the foyer, shouting in his high-pitched voice: 
"**h it may be a <tour de force, mais mon Dieu,> can anyone take 
this music seriously"?   The answer is, "Yes"! Certainly, 
America took Prokofieff and his <Classical> Symphony seriously, 
and with a good deal of pleasure. His life-long friend, Serge 
Koussevitzky, gave unreservedly of his praise and brilliant performances 
in Boston, New York, and Washington, D& C&, to which 
he added broadcastings and recordings for the whole nation. Chicago was 
also a welcome host: there, in 1921, Prokofieff conducted the world 
premiere of the <Love for Three Oranges,> and played the first 
performance of his Third Piano Concerto. "Uncle Sam" was, indeed, 
a rich uncle to Prokofieff, in those opulent, post-war victory 
years of peace and prosperity, bold speculations and extravaganzas, enjoyment 
and pleasure: "The Golden Twenties". We attended the 
premieres of his concertos, symphonies, and suites; we studied, taught, 
and performed his piano sonatas, chamber music, gavottes, and marches; 
we bought his records and played them in our schools and universities. 
We unanimously agreed that Prokofieff had won his rights as 
a world citizen to the first ranks of Twentieth-Century Composers.

Nevertheless, Prokofieff was much influenced by Paris during 
the Twenties: the Paris which was the artistic center of the Western 
World- the social Paris to which Russian aristocracy migrated- 
the <chic> Paris which attracted the tourist dollars of rich 
America- the <avant-garde> Paris of Diaghileff, Stravinsky, Koussevitzky, 
Cocteau, Picasso- the <laissez-faire> Paris of Dadaism 
and ultramodern art- the Paris <sympathique> which took young 
composers to her bosom with such quick and easy enthusiasms.

So young Prokofieff was the darling of success: in his motherland; 
in the spacious hunting grounds of "Uncle Sam"; in the exciting 
salons of his lovely, brilliant Paris- mistress of gaiety- 
excess and abandon- world theatre of new-found freedoms in tone, color, 
dance, design, and thought.   Meanwhile, three great terrible 
forces were coagulating and crystallizing. In this world-wide conscription 
of men, minds, and machines, Prokofieff was recalled to his 
native land. The world exploded when Fascism challenged all concepts 
of peace and liberty, and the outraged, freedom-loving peoples of the 
Capitalist and Socialist worlds combined forces to stamp Fascist 
tyranny into cringing submission. After this holocaust, a changing world 
occupied the minds of men; a world beset with new boundaries, new 
treaties and governments, new goals and methods, and the age-old fears 
of aggression 
and subjugation- hunger and exposure.   In this 
changed world, Prokofieff settled to find himself, and to create 
for 
large national purpose. Here, this happy, roving son of good fortune 
proved that he could accept the disciplines of a new social-economic 
order fighting for its very existence and ideals in a truculent world. 
Here, Prokofieff became a workman in the vineyards of Socialism- 
producing music for the masses.   It is at this point in his life 
that the mature Prokofieff emerges. One might have expected that 
such a violent epoch of transition would have destroyed the creative 
flair of a composer, especially one whose works were so fluent and spontaneous.

But no: Prokofieff grew. He accepted the environment 
of his destiny- took root and grew to fulfill the stature of his 
early promise. By 1937 he had clarified his intentions to serve his 
people: "I have striven for clarity and melodious idiom, but at 
the same time I have by no means attempted to restrict myself to the 
accepted methods of harmony and melody. This is precisely what makes 
lucid, straightforward music so difficult to compose- the clarity must 
be new, not old". How right he was; how clearly he saw the cultural 
defection of experimentation as an escape for those who dare not 
or prefer not to face the discipline of modern traditionalism. And 
with what resource did Prokofieff back up his Credo of words- with 
torrents of powerful music. Compare the vast difference in scope and 
beauty between his neat and witty little <Classical> Symphony and 
his big, muscular, passionate, and eloquent Fifth Symphony; or the 
<Love for Three Oranges> (gay as it is) with the wonderful, imaginative, 
colorful, and subtle tenderness of the magnificent ballet, 
<The Stone Flower>. This masterpiece has gaiety, too, but it is 
the gaiety of dancing people: earthy, salty and humorous.   Of 
course, these works are not comparable, even though the same brain conceived 
them. The early works were conceived for a sophisticated, international 
audience; the later works were conceived to affirm a way 
of life for fellow citizens. However, in all of Prokofieff's music, 
young or mature, we find his profile- his "signature"- his 
craftsman's attitude. Prokofieff never forsakes his medium for the 
cause of experimentation <per se>. In orchestration, he stretches 
the limits of instrumentation with good judgment and a fine imagination 
for color. His sense for rhythmic variety and timing is impeccable. 
His creative development of melodic designs of Slavic dance tunes and 
love songs is captivating: witty, clever, adroit, and subtle. His 
counterpoint is pertinent, skillful, and rarely thick.   Also, 
it should be noted that the polytonal freedom of his melodies and harmonic 
modulations, the brilliant orchestrations, the adroitness for evading 
the heaviness of figured bass, the skill in florid counterpoint 
were not lost in his mature output, even in the spectacular historical 
dramas of the stage and cinema, where a large, dramatic canvas of sound 
was required. That Prokofieff's harmonies and forms sometimes 
seem professionally routine to our ears, may or may not indicate that 
he was less of an "original" than we prefer to believe. Need for 
novelty may be a symptom of cultural fatigue and instability. 
Prokofieff might well emerge as a cultural hero, who, by the force of 
his creative life, helped preserve the main stream of tradition, to which 
the surviving idioms of current experimentalism may be eventually 
added and integrated.   At this date, it seems probable that the 
name of Serge Prokofieff will appear in the archives of History, 
as an effective Traditionalist, who was fully aware of the lure and danger 
of experimentation, and used it as it served his purpose; yet 
was never caught up in it- never a slave to its academic dialectics. 
Certainly, it is the traditional clarity of his music which has endeared 
him to the Western World- not his experimentations.   So 
Prokofieff was able to cultivate his musical talents and harvest a 
rich reward from them. Nor can anyone be certain that Prokofieff would 
have done better, or even as well, under different circumstances. 
His fellow-countryman, Igor Stravinsky, certainly did not. Why did 
Prokofieff expand in stature and fecundity, while Stravinsky (who leaped 
into fame like a young giant) dwindled in stature and fruitfulness? 
I think the answer is to be found in Prokofieff's own words: 
"the clarity must be new, not old". When Prokofieff forged his 
new clarity of "lucid, straightforward music, so difficult to compose", 
he shaped his talents to his purpose.   When Stravinsky 
shaped his purpose to the shifting scenes of many cultures, many salons, 
many dialectics, many personalities, he tried to refashion himself 
into a stylist of many styles, determined by many disparate cultures. 
Prokofieff was guided in a consistent direction by the life of his own 
people- by the compass of their national ideas. But Stravinsky 
was swayed by the attitudes of whatever culture he was reflecting. In 
all his miscalculations, Stravinsky made the fatal historical blunder 
of presuming that he could transform other composers' inspirations- 
representing many peoples, time periods and styles- into his own 
music by warping the harmony, melody, or form, to verify his own experiments. 
Because of the authentic homogeneity of his early Nationalistic 
materials, and his flair for orchestrations- his brilliant <Petruchka,> 
his savage <Sacre du Printemps,> his incisive <Les Noces>- 
the world kept hoping that he could recapture the historical 
direction for which his native talents were predisposed.   But 
time is running out, and many of Stravinsky's admirers begin to fear 
that he will never find <terra firma>. His various aesthetic postulates 
remain as landmarks of a house divided against itself: Supra-Expressionism, 
Neo-Paganism, Neo-Classicism, Neo-Romanticism, 
Neo-Jazz, Neo-Ecclesiasticism, Neo-Popularism, and most recently, 
Post-Serialism- all competing with each other within one composer! 
What a patchwork of proclamations and renunciations! Meager 
and shabby by-products linger to haunt our memories of a once mighty 
protagonist; 
a maladroit reharmonization of our National Anthem (<The 
Star-Spangled Banner>); a poor attempt to write an idiomatic 
jazz concerto; a circus polka for elephants; his hopes that the tunes 
from his old music might be used for popular American commercial 
songs! Stravinsky, nearing the age of eighty, is like a lost and frantic 
bird, flitting from one abandoned nest to another, searching for 
a home.   How differently Prokofieff's life unfolded. Prokofieff 
was able to adjust his creative personality to a swiftly changing 
world without losing his particular force and direction. In the process, 
his native endowments were stretched, strengthened and disciplined 
to serve their human purpose.   With a large and circumspect 
20th-Century technique, he wove the materials of national heroes and 
events, national folklore and children's fairy tales- Slavic dances 
and love songs- into a solid musical literature which served his 
people well, and is providing much enjoyment to the World at large.

Of course, it must not be forgotten that in achieving this historical 
feat, Prokofieff had the vast resources of his people behind 
him; time and economic security; symphony orchestras, opera and ballet 
companies; choruses, chamber music ensembles; soloists; recordings; 
broadcastings; television; large and eager audiences. It 
must be conceded that his native land provided Prokofieff with many 
of the necessary conditions for great creative incentive: economic 
security and cultural opportunities, incisive idioms, social fermentations 
for a new national ideology- a sympathetic public and a large 
body of performers especially trained to fulfill his purpose.   Thus 
in Prokofieff the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics produced 
one of the great composers of the Twentieth Century. That his moods, 
even in his early years, are those of his people, does him honor, 
as his music honors those who inspired it. That he mastered every aspect 
of his medium according to his own great talents and contemporary 
judgments, is a good and solid symbol of his people under the tremendous 
pressures of proclaiming and practising the rigors of a new culture; 
and perhaps of even greater significance- his music is strong 20th-Century 
evidence of the effectiveness of Evolution, based on a broad 
Traditionalism for the creative art of music.

April 10 marked a memorable date in New York's musical history- 
indeed in the musical history of the entire eastern United States. 
On that date the Musicians Emergency Fund, organized to furnish 
employment for musicians unable to obtain engagements during the 
depression and to provide relief for older musicians who lost their fortunes 
in the stock market crash, observed its 30th anniversary. 
ROY MASON IS ESSENTIALLY A LANDSCAPE PAINTER whose style and direction 
has a kinship with the English watercolorists of the early nineteenth 
century, especially the beautifully patterned art of John Sell 
Cotman. And like this English master, Mason realizes his subjects 
in large, simplified masses which, though they seem effortless, are 
in reality the result of skilled design born of hard work and a thorough 
distillation of the natural form that inspired them.   As a 
boy Roy Mason began the long process of extracting the goodness of the 
out-of-doors, its tang of weather, its change of seasons, its variable 
moods. His father, a professional engraver and an amateur landscape 
painter, took his sons on numerous hunting expeditions, and imparted 
to them his knowledge and love of nature. Out of this background of 
hunting and fishing, it was only natural that Roy first painted subjects 
he knew best: hunters in the field, fishermen in the stream, ducks 
and geese on the wing- almost always against a vast backdrop of 
weather landscape. It is this subject matter that has brought Mason 
a large and enthusiastic following among sportsmen, but it is his exceptional 
performance with this motif that commends him to artists and 
discerning collectors.   Mason had to earn the privilege of devoting 
himself exclusively to painting. Like many others, he had to work 
hard, long hours in a struggling family business which, though it was 
allied to art of a kind- the design and production of engraved seals- 
bore no relation to the painting of pictures. But it did teach 
Roy the basic techniques of commercial art, and later, for twelve years, 
he and his sister Nina conducted an advertising art studio in Philadelphia. 
On the death of their father, they returned to their home 
in Batavia, New York. After more years of concentrated effort, Roy 
and his brother Max finally established a thriving family business 
at the old stand.   During all this time Roy continued to paint, 
first only on weekends, and then, as the family business permitted, 
for longer periods. Gradually he withdrew from the shop altogether, 
and for the past thirty years, he has worked independently as a painter, 
except for his continued hunting and fishing expeditions. But even 
on these, the palette often takes over while the shotgun cools off!

Except for a rich friendship with the painter, Chauncey Ryder 
who gave him the only professional instruction he ever had- and 
this was limited to a few lessons, though the two artists often went on 
painting trips together- Roy developed his art by himself. In the 
best tradition, he first taught himself to see, then to draw with accuracy 
and assurance, and then to paint. He worked in oil for years before 
beginning his work in watercolor, and his first public recognition 
and early honors, including his election to the Academy, were for 
his essays in the heavier medium. Gradually watercolor claimed his greater 
affection until today it has become his major, if not exclusive, 
technique.   It has been my privilege to paint with Roy Mason 
on numerous occasions, mostly in the vicinity of Batavia. More often 
than not I have found easy excuse to leave my own work and stand at 
a respectable distance where I could watch this man transform raw nature 
into a composed, not imitative, painting. What I have observed 
time and time again is a process of integration, integration that begins 
as abstract design and gradually takes on recognizable form; color 
patterns that are made to weave throughout the whole composition; 
and that over-all, amazing control of large washes which is the Mason 
stylemark. Finally come those little flicks of a rigger brush and the 
job is done. Inspiring- yes; instructive- maybe; duplicable- 
no!   But for the technical fact, we have the artist's 
own testimony:   "Of late years, I find that I like best to 
work out-of-doors. First I make preliminary watercolor sketches in 
quarter scale (approximately **f inches) in which I pay particular attention 
to the design principles of three simple values- the lightest 
light, the middle tone, and the darkest dark- by reducing the forms 
of my subject to these large patterns. If a human figure or wild life 
are to be part of the projected final picture, I try to place them 
in the initial sketch. For me, these will belong more completely to 
their surroundings if they are conceived in this early stage, though 
I freely admit that I do not hesitate to add or eliminate figures on 
the full sheet when it serves my final purpose.   "I am thoroughly 
convinced that most watercolors suffer because the artist expects 
nature will do his composing for him; as a result, such pictures are 
only a literal translation of what the artist finds in the scene before 
him. Just because a tree or other object appears in a certain spot 
is absolutely no reason to place it in the same position in the painting, 
unless the position serves the design of the whole composition. 
If the artist would study his work more thoroughly and move certain 
units in his design, often only slightly, finer pictures would result. 
Out of long experience I have found that incidental figures and other 
objects like trees, logs, and bushes can be traced from the original 
sketch and moved about in the major areas on the final sheet until they 
occupy the right position, which I call 'clicking'.   "Speed 
in painting a picture is valid only when it imparts spontaneity 
and crispness, but unless the artist has lots of experience so that 
he can control rapid execution, he would do well to take these first sketches 
and soberly reorder their design to achieve a unified composition.

"If I have seemed to emphasize the structure of the composition, 
I mean to project equal concern for color. Often, in working 
out-of-doors under all conditions of light and atmosphere, a particular 
passage that looked favorable in relation to the subject will be 
too bright, too dull, or too light, or too dark when viewed indoors in 
a mat. When this occurs, I make the change on the sketch or on the 
final watercolor- if I have been working on a full sheet in the field.

"When working from one of my sketches I square it up and 
project its linear form freehand to the watercolor sheet with charcoal. 
When this linear draft is completed, I dust it down to a faint 
image. From this point, I paint in as direct a manner as possible, by 
flowing on the washes with as pure a color mixture as I can manage. 
However, first 
I thoughtfully study my sketch for improvement of color and 
design along the lines I have described. Then I plan my attack: 
the parts I will finish first, the range of values, the accenting of 
minor details- all in all, mechanics of producing the finished job 
with a maximum of crispness. The longer I work, the more I am sure 
that for me, at least, a workmanlike method is important. Trial and 
error are better placed in the preliminary sketch than in hoping for miracles 
in the final painting.   "As for materials, I use the 
best available. I work on a watercolor easel in the field, and frequently 
resort to a large garden umbrella to protect my eyes from undue 
strain. In my studio I work at a tilt-top table, but leave the paper 
unfixed so that I can move it freely to control the washes. I have 
used a variety of heavy-weight hand-made papers, but prefer an English 
make, rough surface, in 400-pound weight. After selecting a sheet 
and inspecting it for flaws (even the best sometimes has foreign 'nubbins' 
on its surface), I sponge it thoroughly on both sides with 
clean, cold water. Then I dry the sheet under mild pressure so that 
it will lie flat as a board.   "In addition to the usual tools, 
I make constant use of cleansing tissue, not only to wipe my brushes, 
but to mop up certain areas, to soften edges, and to open up lights 
in dark washes. The great absorbency of this tissue and the fact that 
it is easier to control than a sponge makes it an ideal tool for the 
watercolorist. I also use a small electric hand-blower to dry large 
washes in the studio.

"My brushes are different from those used 
by most watercolorists, for I combine the sable and the bristle. The 
red sables are @8; two riggers, @6 and @10; and a very large, 
flat wash brush. The bristles are a Fitch @2 and a one-half 
inch brush shaved to a sharp chisel edge.   "My usual palette 
consists of top-quality colors: alizarin crimson, orange, raw sienna, 
raw umber, burnt sienna, sepia, cerulean blue, cobalt blue, French 
ultramarine blue, Winsor green, Hooker's green @2, cadmium yellow 
pale, yellow ochre, Payne's gray, charcoal gray, Davy's gray, 
and ivory black".   In analyzing the watercolors of Roy Mason, 
the first thing that comes to mind is their essential decorativeness, 
yet this word has such a varied connotation that it needs some elaboration 
here. True, a Mason watercolor is unmistakably a synthesis 
of nature rather than a detailed inventory. Unlike many decorative patterns 
that present a static flat convention, this artist's pictures 
are full of atmosphere and climate.   Long observation has taught 
Mason that most landscape can be reduced to three essential planes: 
a foreground in sharp focus- either a light area with dark accents 
or a dark one with lights; a middle distance often containing the 
major motif; and a background, usually a silhouetted form foiled against 
the sky. In following this general principle, Mason provides the 
observer with a natural eye progression from foreground to background, 
and the illusion of depth is instantly created.   When painting, 
Mason's physical eyes are half-closed, while his mind's eye 
is wide open, and this circumstance accounts in part for the impression 
he wishes to convey. He does not insist on telling all he knows about 
any given subject; rather his pictures invite the observer to draw 
on his memory, his imagination, his nostalgia. It is for this 
reason that Roy avoids selecting subjects that require specific recognition 
of place for their enjoyment. His pictures generalize, though 
they are inspired by a particular locale; they universalize in terms 
of weather, skies, earth, and people. By dealing with common landscape 
in an uncommon way, Roy Mason has found a particular niche in American 
landscape art. Living with his watercolors is a vicarious experience 
of seeing nature distilled through the eyes of a sensitive interpretor, 
a breath and breadth of the outdoor world to help man honor 
the Creator of it all.   The artist was born in Gilbert Mills, 
New York, in 1886, and until two years ago when he and his wife moved 
to California, he lived in western New York, in Batavia. When 
I looked up the actual date of his birth and found it to be March 
15th, I realized that Roy was born under the right zodiacal sign for 
a watercolorist: the water sign of Pisces (February 18-March 20). 
And how very often a water plane is featured in his landscapes, and 
how appropriate that he should appear in AMERICAN ARTIST again, 
in his natal month of March!   Over the years, beginning in 
1929, Mason has been awarded seventeen major prizes including two gold 
medals; two Ranger Fund purchase awards; the Joseph Pennell 
Memorial Medal; two American Watercolor Society prizes; the Blair 
Purchase Prize for watercolor, Art Institute of Chicago; 
and others in Buffalo, New York, Chautauqua, New Haven, Rochester, 
Rockport, and most recently, the $300 prize for a watercolor at 
the Laguna Beach Art Association,   He was elected to the National 
Academy of Design as an Associate in the oil class in 1931 
(after receiving his first Ranger Fund Purchase Prize at the Academy 
in 1930), and elevated to Academicianship in 1940. Other memberships 
include the American Watercolor Society, Philadelphia Water 
Color Club, Allied Artists of America, Audubon Artists, Baltimore 
Watercolor Society.

The Russian gymnasts beat the tar out of the American gymnasts 
in the 1960 Olympics for one reason- they were better. They were 
better trained, better looking, better built, better disciplined **h 
and something else- <they were better dancers>. Our athletes are 
only just beginning to learn that they must study dance. The Russians 
are all trained as dancers before they start to study gymnastics.

But why gymnastics at all? And is the sport really important? 
After all, we did pretty well in some other areas of the Olympics 
competition. But if it is important, what can we do to improve ourselves? 
It is more than just lack of dance training that is our problem, 
for just as gymnastics can learn from dance, dance has some very 
important things to learn from gymnastics.   Taking first things 
first, let's understand the sport called gymnastics. It is made up 
of tumbling, which might be said to start with a somersault, run through 
such stunts as headstands, handstands, cartwheels, backbends, and 
culminate in nearly impossible combinations of aerial flips and twists 
**h and apparatus work. The apparatus used by gymnasts was once a 
common sight in American gyms, but about 1930 it was dropped in favor 
of games. The parallel bars, horse, buck, springboard, horizontal bar, 
rings, and mats formerly in the school gyms were replaced by baseball, 
volleyball, basketball and football.   But the Russians use 
gymnastics as the first step in training for all other sports because 
it provides training in every basic quality except one, endurance. The 
gymnast must develop strength, flexibility, coordination, timing, 
rhythm, courage, discipline, persistence and the desire for perfection. 
In short, gymnastics uses every part of the body and requires a great 
deal of character as well. The addition of endurance training later, 
when the body is mature enough to benefit from it without danger of injury, 
provides that final quality that makes the top athlete, soldier 
or citizen.   Another reason gymnastic study is valuable is that 
it can be started very early in life. (An enterprising teacher or parent 
<could> start training a healthy child at the age of seven days. 
Most Europeans have been exercising newborn infants for centuries.) 
In most sports, as in most walks of life, the angels are on the side 
of those who begin young, and the Russian competitor of 16 has at 
least thirteen years of training behind him. The American is very lucky 
if he has three.   If a nation wished to get a head start in 
physical fitness over all other nations, it would start its kindergarten 
students on a program of gymnastics the day they entered and thus 
eliminate a large number of the problems that plague American schools. 
First of the problems attacked would be fatigue and emotional tension, 
since action relieves both. Oddly enough, it is proven that there 
would be less reading difficulty. Certainly there would be less anxiety, 
fewer accidents (it is the clumsy child who sustains the worst injuries), 
and higher scholastic averages, since alert children work better. 
Russia knows this, and that is why there were over 800,000 competing 
for places as candidates for the Olympic gymnastic team. Eighty 
thousand won top honors and a chance to try for the team itself. We 
could scarcely find eighty in our great land of over 180 million people.

And what has dancing to do with all this? A great deal. 
Russia's young gymnasts have studied dance before having the rigorous 
training on apparatus. Well-stretched, trained in posture and coordinated 
movement, and wedded to rhythm, they presented the audiences 
in 
Rome with one of the most beautiful sights ever seen at any Olympic 
contest. American audiences in particular learned two valuable lessons. 
They saw completely masculine and obviously virile men performing 
with incredible grace. They were further stripped of old wive's 
tales 
by seeing the slender, lovely Russian girls performing feats requiring 
tremendous strength **h and with not one bulging muscle.   President 
Kennedy has asked that we become a physically fit nation. If 
we wait until children are in junior high or high school, we will never 
manage it. To be fit, one has to start early with young children, 
and today the only person who really reaches such children is the teacher 
of dance. If the dance teachers of America make it their business 
to prepare their young charges for the gymnastics that must come 
some day if our schools are really responsible, we will be that much 
ahead. School teachers, all too unprepared for the job they must do, 
will need demonstrators. There should be youngsters who know how to do 
a headstand, and also how to help other children learn it. They should 
know simple exercises that could prepare less fortunate children for 
the sports we will demand be taught.   Dance teachers can respond 
to President Kennedy's request not only through their regular 
dance work, but also through the kind of basic gymnastic work that makes 
for strength and flexibility.   Very little in today's living 
provides the strength we need **h and nothing provides the flexibility. 
Dancers do have flexibility. They often fail, however, to develop 
real abdominal, back, chest, shoulder and arm strength. Ask any group 
of ballerinas to do ten push-ups or three chin-ups and the results, 
considering the amount of physical training they have had, will be 
very disappointing. Even the boys will not be outstanding in these areas. 
This isn't surprising when we consider that over 29 percent of 
the 11-year-old boys in America <cannot chin themselves once>, and 
that English school girls outdo them in almost every test (even dashes 
and endurance). The only area in which American boys hold their own 
is the baseball throw. 

#THE CHINNING BAR#

For arm and shoulder 
strength a chinning bar is recommended. It should be installed over 
a door that is in full view of everyone, and a chair should be placed 
under it, a little to one side. Those children who can chin themselves 
should be told to do <one> chin up each time they pass under it. 
Those who are too weak, should climb on the chair and, starting at the 
top of the chin, let themselves <slowly> down. When they can take 
ten seconds to accomplish the descent, they will have the strength to 
chin <up>. Parents should be informed about this system and encouraged 
to do the same with the whole family at home. 

#THE HORSE KICK# 

Arm, shoulder, chest, upper and lower back strength will be aided with 
the Horse Kick. Start on hands and feet. Keeping the hands in 
the starting position, run in place to a quick rhythm. After this has 
become easy, use slower and slower rhythms, kicking higher and higher. 
Follow this by crossing from one corner of the room to the other on 
all fours, kicking as high as possible. 

#PUSH-UPS#

Push-ups are 
essential, but few have the strength for them at first. Start on the 
knees in a large circle. Fall slowly forward onto the hands and let 
the body down to rest on the floor. Push back up and repeat. Do this 
exercise six times each class period. As strength improves start in 
a standing position with legs wide apart and upper body bent forward. 
Start by falling forward to a point close to the feet, and, as strength 
improves, fall farther and farther out. Try to push back to the stand 
position from the stretched position without any intermediate pushes 
from the hands. The push-up itself can be taught by starting at the 
<top> of the push-up with legs spread wide. Let the body down slowly, 
taking at least five seconds for the letting <down>. Five of these 
done daily for about a week will develop the strength for one push-<up>. 

#HANDSTANDS#

Handstands come after arms, chest and shoulders 
have developed at least a minimum of strength. Of course those 
who have developed more will find them easier. Start with the class 
standing in a circle, with weight on the right foot and the left extended 
a little way into the circle. At first each child should do a kick 
up by himself so that the teacher can determine those ready to work 
alone, and those who need help. Drop both hands to the floor and at the 
same time kick the right foot up in back. The left will follow at 
once. The right will land first, followed by the left. Return to the 
standing position. Care should be taken to see that the hands are placed 
on the floor before the kick starts and also that the landing foot 
is brought as close to the hands as possible. This will prevent flat 
falls and toe injuries. Bare feet are better for such work than any 
form of slipper. Eventually the class will be able to kick up high enough 
so that the teacher can catch the leading leg. The child should 
then bring both legs together overhead, point the toes and tighten the 
seat muscles. Be sure that the landing foot is brought close to the 
hands and that only one foot lands at a time. 

#BACKBENDS#

The backbend 
is of extreme importance to any form of free gymnastics, and, 
as with all acrobatics, the sooner begun the better the results. Have 
the class lie supine with knees apart and bent. Place flat palms on 
either side of the head a few inches away from the ears, <fingers pointing 
toward the shoulders>. Arch the back upwards to make a bridge. 
Be sure the head drops backward so that the child looks at the floor 
rather than toward the ceiling. As flexibility improves, the feet will 
move closer to the hands and the bridge rise higher. Later this can 
be combined with the handstand to provide a walkover. 

#BACK CIRCLE# 

To further increase back flexibility, work on the back circle. Have 
the class lie prone. Place the hands in front of the chest. Keep 
the legs straight and the toes pointed. Straighten the arms slowly, 
this arches the back. At the peak of the arch, tip the head back and 
bend the knees in an effort to touch toes to head. Improvement can be 
measured by the lessening distance between toes and head. 

#SOMERSAULTS# 

The last essential to the beginner's gymnastic program is the 
somersault, or forward roll. This used to be part of every child's 
bag of tricks, but few children can do it today; some are actually 
incapable of rolling forward and are completely confused when not sitting 
or standing upright. For most small children, learning a forward 
roll is simply a matter of copying another child who can. After it has 
been seen, have the child start on a mat on hands and knees (a thin, 
inexpensive mat is quite sufficient for anything that does not require 
falling). He places the hands on either side of the head, keeping 
the chin down on the chest. He then pushes his seat into the air and 
the teacher guides it over. One or two practice runs should be sufficient 
for solo. If, however, the child is weak, overweight, or afraid, 
more help will be needed. When the child raises his seat into the air, 
the teacher takes hold under both sides of the pelvis; then no matter 
what happens, the child's performance will be controlled. By lifting 
the seat upwards a little, the weight is taken off the neck and 
the back is kept rounded.   These are beginnings, but correctly 
learned they prepare for satisfying and exciting stunts that can be performed 
by a strong, flexible body (we are not talking of eccentric extremes). 
Even if gymnastics are not the ultimate goal, the good tumbler 
will be a better dancer, a better athlete, and a human being with 
a greater margin of safety in any activity.   It is very important 
for parents to understand that early training is imperative. And dancing 
school, so helpful in artistic and psychological development, also 
contributes to this essential early training- and can contribute 
even more.

EVERY taxpayer is well aware of the vast size of our annual 
defense 
budget and most of our readers also realize that a large portion 
of these expenditures go for military electronics. We have noted how 
some electronic techniques, developed for the defense effort, have evenutally 
been used in commerce and industry. The host of novel applications 
of electronics to medical problems is far more thrilling because 
of their implication in matters concerning our health and vitality.

When we consider the electronic industry potential for human betterment, 
the prospect is staggering. The author has recently studied 
the field of medical electronics and has been convinced that, in this 
area alone, the application of electronic equipment has enormous possibilities. 
The benefits electronics can bring to bio-medicine may be 
greater by far than any previous medical discovery. We use the term 
"bio-medicine" because of the close interrelation between biology 
and medical research.   Electronics has been applied to medicine 
for many years in the form of such familiar equipment as the x-ray machine, 
the electrocardiograph, and the diathermy machine. Recently many 
doctors have installed ultrasonic vibration machines for deep massage 
of bruises, 
contusions, and simple bursitis.   Commonly used electronic 
devices which are found in practically every hospital are closed-circuit 
~TV and audio systems for internal paging and instruction, 
along with radiation counters, timers, and similar devices.

In this article we will concentrate on the advances in the application 
of electronics in bio-medical research laboratories because this 
is where tomorrow's commonplace equipment originates. From the wealth 
of material and the wide variety of different electronic techniques 
perfected in the past few years we have selected a few examples which 
appear to be headed for use in the immediate future and which offer completely 
new tools in medical research. 

#ULTRAVIOLET MICROSCOPY# 

Many cells, bacteria, and other microorganisms are transparent to visible 
light and must be stained for microscopic investigation. This stain 
often disrupts the normal cell activity or else colors only the outside. 
A completely new insight into living cells and their structure 
will be possible by use of a new technique which replaces visible light 
with ultraviolet radiation and combines a microscope with a color-~TV 
system to view the results.   Fig& 1 is a simplified block 
diagram of the ultraviolet microscopy system developed at the Medical 
Electronics Center of Rockefeller Institute. By combining the 
talents of a medical man, Dr& Aterman, a biophysicist, Mr& 
Berkely, 
and an electronics expert, Dr& Zworykin, this novel technique 
has been developed which promises to open broad avenues to understanding 
life processes.   Three different wavelengths of ultraviolet 
radiation are selected by the variable filters placed in front of the 
three mercury xenon lights which serve as the ultraviolet sources. 
These wavelengths are reflected in sequence through the specimen by the 
rotating mirror; the specimen is magnified by the microscope. Instead 
of the observer's eye the image orthicon in the ~TV camera 
does the "looking". The microscope and orthicon are both selected 
to operate well into the ultraviolet spectrum, which means that all 
lenses must be quartz.   The video signal is amplified and then 
switched, in synchronism with the three ultraviolet light sources which 
are sequenced by the rotating mirror so that during one-twentieth of 
a second only one wavelength, corresponding to red, green, or blue, is 
seen. (Note: Because of light leakage from one ultraviolet source 
to another, the lights are switched by a commutator-like assembly rotated 
by a synchronous motor. This assembly also supplies a 20-~cps 
switching gate for the electronics circuitry.) This is the same system 
as was used in the field-sequential color-~TV system which preceded 
the present simultaneous system. Three separate amplifiers then 
drive a 21-inch tricolor tube. The result is a color picture of the 
specimen where the primary colors correspond to the three different ultraviolet 
wavelengths.   Many of the cells and microorganisms which 
are transparent to visible light, absorb or reflect the much shorter 
wavelengths of the ultraviolet spectrum. Different parts of these cells 
sometimes absorb or reflect different wavelengths so that it is often 
possible to see internal portions of cells in a different color. 
Where the microscope under visible light may show only vague shadows 
or nothing at all, ultraviolet illumination and subsequent translation 
into a color ~TV picture reveal a wealth of detail.   At the 
present time the research team which pioneered this new technique is 
primarily interested in advancing and perfecting it. 

#BREATHING- 
ELECTRONICALLY ANALYZED#

The medical title of "Lobar Ventilation 
in Man" by Drs& C& J& Martin and A& C& Young, covers 
a brief paper which is one part of a much larger effort to apply electronics 
to the study of the respiratory process. At the University 
of Washington Medical School, the electronics group has developed 
the "Respiratory Gas Analyzer" shown in Fig& 3. This unit, 
affectionately dubbed "The Monster", can be wheeled to any convenient 
location and provides a wealth of information about the patient's 
breathing.   In the lower center rack an 8-channel recorder 
indicates the percentage of carbon dioxide and nitrogen from the upper 
and lower lobes of one lung, the total volume of inhalation per breath, 
the flow of air from both lobes, and the pressure of the two lobes 
with respect to each other. Usually the patient breathes into a mouthpiece 
while walking a treadmill, standing still, or in some other medically 
significant position. From the resulting data the doctor can determine 
lung defects with hitherto unknown accuracy and detail. 

#HEART-MEASURING 
TECHNIQUES#

The original electrocardiograph primarily 
indicates irregularities in the heartbeat, but today's techniques allow 
exact measurements of the flow of blood through the aorta, dimensioning 
of the heart and its chambers, and a much more detailed study of 
each heartbeat. For many of these measurements the chest must be opened, 
but the blood vessels and the heart itself remain undisturbed.

A group of researchers at the University of Washington have given 
a paper which briefly outlines some of these techniques. One simple 
method of measuring the expansion of the heart is to tie a thin rubber 
tube, filled with mercury, around the heart and record the change 
in resistance as the tube is stretched. A balanced resistance bridge 
and a pen recorder are all the electronic instrumentation needed.

Sonar can be used to measure the thickness of the heart by placing 
small crystal transducers at opposite sides of the heart or blood vessel 
and exciting one with some pulsed ultrasonic energy. The travel 
time of sound in tissue is about 1500 meters per second thus it takes 
about 16 
|msec& to traverse 25 mm& of tissue. A sonar or radar-type 
of pulse generator and time-delay measuring system is required for 
body-tissue evaluation. In addition to the heart and aorta, successful 
measurements of liver and spleen have also been made by this technique. 
The Doppler effect, using ultrasonic signals, can be employed to 
measure the flow of blood without cutting into the blood vessel.

A still more sophisticated system has been devised for determining 
the effective power of the heart itself. It uses both an ultrasonic 
dimensioning arrangement of the heart and a catheter carrying a thermistor 
inserted into the bloodstream. The latter measures the heat carried 
away by the bloodstream as an indication of the velocity of the blood 
flow. It is also possible to utilize a pressure transducer, mounted 
at the end of a catheter which is inserted into the heart's left 
ventricle, to indicate the blood pressure in the heart itself. This pressure 
measurement may be made at the same time that the ultrasonic dimensioning 
measurement is made. A simplified version of the instrumentation 
for this procedure is shown in Fig& 2. Outputs of the two 
systems are measured by a pulse-timing circuit and a resistance bridge, 
followed by a simple analogue computer which feeds a multichannel recorder. 
From this doctors can read heart rate, change in diameter, pressure, 
and effective heart power. 

#RADIO-TRANSMITTER PILLS#

Several 
years ago headlines were made by a small radio transmitter capsule 
which could be swallowed by the patient and which would then radio internal 
pressure data to external receivers. This original capsule contained 
a battery and a transistor oscillator and was about 1 cm& in 
diameter. Battery life limited the use of this "pill" to about 8 
to 30 hours maximum.   A refinement of this technique has been described 
by Drs& Zworykin and Farrar and Mr& Berkely of the Medical 
Electronics Center of the Rockefeller Institute. In this 
novel arrangement the "pill" is much smaller and contains only a resonant 
circuit in which the capacitor is formed by a pressure-sensing 
transducer. As shown in Fig& 4, an external antenna is placed over 
or around the patient and excited 3000 times a second with short 400-kc& 
bursts. The energy received by the "pill" causes the resonant 
circuit to "ring" on after the burst and this "ringing" takes 
place at the resonant frequency of the "pill". These frequencies 
are amplified and detected by the ~FM receiver after each burst 
of transmitted energy and, after the "pill" has been calibrated, 
precise internal pressure indications can be obtained.   One of 
the advantages of this method is that the "pill" can remain in the 
patient for several days, permitting observation under natural conditions. 
Applications to organs other than the gastrointestinal tract are 
planned for future experiments. 

#SONAR IN MEDICAL RESEARCH#

One 
of the most gratifying applications of an important technique of submarine 
detection is in the exploration of the human body. Our readers 
are familiar with the principles of sonar where sound waves are sent 
out in water and the echoes then indicate submerged objects. Various 
methods of pulsing, scanning, and displaying these sound waves are used 
to detect submarines, map ocean floors, and even communicate under water. 
In medicine the frequencies are much higher, transducers and the 
sonar beams themselves are much smaller, and different scanning techniques 
may be used, but the principles involved are the same as in sonar.

Because the body contains so much liquid, transmission of 
ultrasonic signals proceeds fairly well in muscles and blood vessels. 
Bones and cartilage transmit poorly and tend to reflect the ultrasonic 
signals. Based on this phenomenon, a number of investigators have used 
this method to "look through" human organs. A good example of 
the results obtainable with ultrasonic radiation is contained in papers 
presented by Dr& G& Baum who has explored the human eye. He 
can diagnose detachment of the retina where conventional methods indicate 
blindness due to glaucoma. The method used to scan the eye ultrasonically 
is illustrated in Fig& 6. The transducer is coupled to the 
body through a water bath, not shown. For display, Dr& Baum uses 
a portion of an **f, an airborne radar indicator, and then photographs 
the screen to obtain a permanent record.   A typical "sonogram" 
of a human eye, together with a description of the anatomical 
parts, is shown in Fig& 5. The frequency used for these experiments 
is 15 mc& and the transducer is a specially cut crystal with an epoxy 
lens capable of providing beam diameters smaller than one millimeter. 
The transducer itself moves the beam in a sector scan, just like 
a radar antenna, while the entire transducer structure is moved over a 
90-degree arc in front of the eye to "look into" all corners. 
The total 
picture is only seen by the camera which integrates the many sector 
scans over the entire 90-degree rotation period.   Drs& 
Howry 
and Holmes at the University of Colorado Medical School have applied 
the same sonar technique to other areas of soft tissue and have 
obtained extremely good results. By submerging the patient in a tub 
and rotating the transducer while the scanning goes on, they have been 
able to get cross-section views of the neck, as shown in Fig& 7, as 
well as many other hitherto impossible insights. As mentioned before, 
bone reflects the sound energy and in Fig& 7 the portion of the 
spine shows as the black area in the center. Arteries and veins are apparent 
by their black, blood-filled centers and the surrounding white 
walls.   A cross-section of a normal lower human leg is shown in 
Fig& 8 with the various parts labeled.

OERSTED'S boyhood represented a minimal chance of either 
attaining greatness or serving his people so well and over so long a 
span of life. He was born in the small Danish town of Rudkoebing on 
the island of Langeland in the south-central part of Denmark on August 
14, 1777. His father Soeren was the village apothecary whose slender 
income made it difficult to feed his family, let alone educate 
them in a town without even a school. The two older boys, Hans and Anders, 
his junior by a year, therefore went daily to the home of a 
warm 
and friendly wigmaker nearby for instruction in German; his wife 
taught the two boys to read and write Danish. Other brothers later joined 
them for instruction with Oldenburg, the wigmaker, and also arithmetic 
was added to Bible reading, German, and Danish in the informal 
curriculum. Oldenburg's contributions were soon exhausted and the 
boys had to turn to a wider circle of the town's learned, such as 
the pastor, to supplement the simple teaching. From the town surveyor, 
Hans learned drawing and mathematics and, from a university student, 
some academic subjects. The mayor of the town taught them English 
and French. Whatever Hans or Anders learned separately they passed 
on to each other; they read every book that they could borrow in the 
village. At 12, Hans was sufficiently mature to help his father in 
the apothecary shop, which helped stimulate his interest in medicine 
and science. His earlier love for literature and history remained with 
him for his entire life.   In 1793 the brothers decided to enter 
the University of Copenhagen (founded in 1479) and the following 
spring found them at the university preparing to matriculate for the 
autumn session. While Hans devoted himself to the sciences of medicine, 
physics, and astronomy, his brother studied law. The brothers continued 
to help each other during their studies, sharing a joint purse, 
lodging together in the dormitory and dining together at the home of 
their aunt. They supplemented their income by small government assistance, 
by tutoring and economizing wherever they could. So impressive 
were those serious years of study at the university that Hans later 
wrote, "to be perfectly free, the young man must revel in the great 
kingdom of thought and imagination; there is a struggle there, in which, 
if he falls, it is easy for him to rise again, there is freedom 
of utterance there, which draws after it no irreparable consequences on 
society **h. I lived in this onward-driving contest where each day 
overcame a new difficulty, gained a new truth, or banished a previous 
error". He openly proclaimed his pleasure in lecturing and writing 
about science. In this third year at the university, Hans, in 1797, 
was awarded the first important token of recognition, a gold medal for 
his essay on "Limits of Poetry and Prose". He completed his training 
in pharmacy also, taking his degree with high honors in 1797, 
and in 1799 was awarded the degree of Doctor of Philosophy along with 
a prize for an essay in medicine. He proposed a fresh theory of alkalis 
which later was accepted in chemical practices. 

#FERMENT OF SCIENTIFIC 
ACTIVITY#

HAN'S STUDENT DAYS were at a time when Europe 
was in a new intellectual ferment following the revolutions in America 
and in France, Germany and Italy were rising from divisive nationalisms 
and a strong wave of intellectual awareness was sweeping the 
Continent.   The new century opened with Oersted beginning 
his professional career in charge of an apothecary shop in Copenhagen 
and as lecturer at the university. He was stirred by the announcement 
of Volta's 
discovery of chemical electricity and he immediately applied 
the voltaic pile to experiments with acids and alkalis. The following 
year he devoted to the customary "Wanderjahr", traveling in 
Germany, France, and the Netherlands, meeting the philosophers Schelling, 
Fichte, and Tieck. He also met Count Rumford (born Benjamin 
Thompson in Woburn, Mass&) who was then serving the Elector 
of Bavaria, and the physicist Ritter; these were Oersted's main 
contacts in science.   From Go^ttingen (1801) where he stayed 
for 10 days, he wrote, "The first question asked everywhere is 
about galvanism. As everybody is curious to see the battery of glass 
tubes I have invented, I have had quite a small one made here of 
four glass 
tubes (in Copenhagen I used 30) and intend to carry it with me". 
Oersted joined Ritter at Jena and stayed with him for 3 weeks, continuing 
their correspondence after he left. With Ritter he was exposed 
to the fantastic profusion of ideas that stormed through his host's 
fertile but disorganized mind. Oersted remodeled Ritter's notes 
into an essay in French which was submitted to the Institut de France 
for its annual prize of 3,000 francs. The sound discoveries of 
this quixotic genius were so diluted by those of fantasy that the prize 
was never awarded to him. In May, 1803, Ritter, in another flight 
of fancy, wrote to Oersted a letter that contained a remarkable prophecy. 
He related events on earth to periodic celestial phenomena and 
indicated that the years of maximum inclination of the ecliptic coincided 
with the years of important electrical discoveries. Thus, 1745 corresponded 
to the invention of the "Leiden" jar by Kleist, 1764 
that of the electrophorus by Wilcke, 1782 produced the condenser of 
Volta, and 1801 the voltaic pile. Ritter proceeded, "You now emerge 
into a new epoch in which late in the year 1819 or 1820, you will have 
to reckon. This we might well witness". Ritter died in 1810 and 
Oersted not only lived to see the event occur but was the author of 
it.   In 1803 Oersted returned to Copenhagen and applied for 
the university's chair in physics but was rejected because he was probably 
considered more a philosopher than a physicist. However, he continued 
experimenting and lecturing, publishing the results of his experiments 
in German and Danish periodicals. In 1806 his ambition was 
realized and he became professor of physics at the Copenhagen University, 
though not realizing full professorship (ordinarius) until 1817.

During Oersted's attendance at the university, it was poorly 
equipped with physical apparatus for experimenting in the sciences. 
He was, however, fortunate in his contact with Prof& J& G& 
L& Manthey (1769-1842), teacher of chemistry, who, in addition to 
his academic chair, was 
also proprietor of the "Lion Pharmacy" in 
Copenhagen where Oersted assisted him. Manthey maintained a valuable 
collection of physical and chemical apparatus which was at Oersted's 
disposal during and after his graduation. In 1800, Manthey went 
abroad and Oersted was appointed manager of the Lion Pharmacy. In 
February 1801, Oersted did manage to experiment with physical apparatus 
and reported experiments made with a voltaic battery of 600 plates 
of zinc and silver and of later experiments with a battery of 60 plates 
of zinc and lead. In the following year, 1803, Oersted, simultaneously 
with Davy, discovered that acids increased the strength of a voltaic 
battery more than did salts. Eager as he was to pursue this promising 
line, he was so loaded down with the management of the pharmacy 
and lectures in the medical and pharmaceutical faculties at the university 
that he could devote only Sunday afternoons to "galvanizing".

He assumed his academic career with the same intensity and 
thoroughness that had marked every step in his rise from boyhood. The 
university was the only one in Denmark and the status of professor 
represented the upper social level. His broad interest in literary, political, 
and philosophical movements opened many doors to him. His friends 
were numerous and their ties to him were strong.   The years 
1812 and 1813 saw him in Germany and France again, but on this 
visit to Berlin he did not seek out the philosophers as he had on his 
first journey. In Berlin he published his views of the chemical laws 
of nature in German and this was issued in French translation (Paris, 
1813) under the title <Recherches sur l'identite des forces chimiques 
et electriques,> a work held in very high esteem by the new 
generation 
of research chemists. His interest in finding a relationship between 
voltaic electricity and magnetism is here first indicated. Chapter 
/8, is entitled "On Magnetism" and in it are included such 
remarks as, "One has always been tempted to compare the magnetic forces 
with the electrical forces. The great resemblance between electrical 
and magnetic attractions and repulsions and the similarity of their 
laws necessarily would bring about this comparison. It is true, that 
nothing has been found comparable with electricity by communication; 
but the phenomena observed had such a degree of analogy to those 
depending on electrical distribution that one could not find the slightest 
difference **h. The form of galvanic activity is halfway between 
the magnetic form and the electrical form. There, forces are more latent 
than in electricity, and less than in magnetism **h. But in such 
an important question, we would be satisfied if the judgment were that 
the principal objection to the identity of forces which produce electricity 
and magnetism were only a difficulty, and not a thing which is 
contrary to it **h. One could also add to these analogies that steel 
loses its magnetism by heat, which proves that steel becomes a better 
conductor through a rise in temperature, just as electrical bodies do. 
It is also found that magnetism exists in all bodies of nature, as 
proven by Bruckmann and Coulomb. By that, one feels that magnetic 
forces are as general as electrical forces. An attempt should be made 
to see if electricity, in its most latent stage, has any action on the 
magnet as such". His plan and intent were clearly charted. 
Oersted returned in 1814 and resumed an active part in university and 
political discussions. In one debate he supported the freedom of judgment 
as opposed to dogma, in another he held that the practice of science 
was in fact an act of religious worship. He continued as a popular 
lecturer. He devised a detonating fuse in which a short wire was 
caused to glow by an electric current.   In 1819 under royal command 
he undertook a very successful geological expedition to Bornholm, 
one of the Danish islands, being one of three scientists in the expedition. 
It was with the assistance of one of the members of this expedition, 
Lauritz Esmarch, that Oersted succeeded in producing light 
by creating an electric discharge in mercury vapor through which an electric 
current was made to flow. Together they also developed a new 
form of voltaic cell in which the wooden trough was replaced by one of 
copper, thereby producing stronger currents. Esmarch was among those 
who witnessed Oersted's first demonstration of his discovery. 

#DISCOVERY 
OF ELECTROMAGNETISM#

THE ASSOCIATION between electric 
(both electrostatic and voltaic) forces and magnetic forces had been 
recognized by investigators for many decades. Electrical literature 
contained numerous references to lightning that had magnetized iron and 
had altered the polarity of compass needles. In the late 1700's 
Beccaria and van Marum, among others, had magnetized iron by sending 
an electrostatic charge through it. Beccaria had almost stumbled on 
a lead to the relationship between electricity and magnetism when a discharge 
from a Leyden jar was sent <transversally> through a piece 
of watch-spring steel making its ends magnetic. The resulting magnetic 
effect proved stronger than when the discharge was made lengthwise. 
The experiments of Romagnosi and others have already been noted but 
no one had determined the cause-and-effect relationship between these 
two primary forces. Oersted's own earlier experiments were unimpressive, 
possibly because he had, like other experimenters, laid the conducting 
wire across the compass needle instead of parallel with it.

The sequence of events leading to his important discovery still remains 
ambiguous but it seems that one of the advanced students at the 
university related that the first direct event that led to the publication 
of Oersted's discovery occurred during a private lecture made 
before a group of other advanced students in the spring of 1820. At 
this lecture Oersted happened to place the conducting wire over and parallel 
to a magnetic needle. 
Knowing <specifically> what the many feed additives can do and 
how and when to feed them can make a highly competitive business more 
profitable for beef, dairy, and sheep men.   The <target chart> 
quickly and briefly tells you which additives do what. All the additives 
listed here are sanctioned for use by the Food and Drug Administration 
of the federal government. All comments concerning effectiveness 
and use of drugs have been carefully reviewed by a veterinary 
medical officer with ~FDA.   This article assumes that the 
rations you are feeding your beef, dairy cattle, and sheep are adequately 
balanced with protein, vitamins, and minerals.   The drug's 
chemical name is listed, since most states require feed processors 
to use this name instead of the trade name on the feed tag. In some instances, 
the trade name is shown in parentheses following the chemical 
name. This indicates that this drug is being marketed under one trade 
name only or state regulatory organizations have approved its use on 
the feed tag. 

#HERE'S YOUR FEED ADDITIVE GUIDE FOR RUMINANTS:# 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Oxytetracycline hydrochloride (Terramycin) 

_WHAT IT DOES:_ Increases rate of gain and improves 
feed efficiency, aids in the prevention or treatment (depending on level 
fed) of the early stages of shipping fever, prevents or treats bacterial 
diarrhea, and aids in reducing incidence of bloat and liver abscesses. 
Milk production may be increased by the anti-infective properties 
of this drug. _HOW TO FEED: BEEF CATTLE (FINISHING RATION)_- 
To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency, feed 75 milligrams 
per head in daily supplement. _CALVES_- To increase rate 
of gain and improve feed efficiency, feed 10 to 25 grams per ton of complete 
feed. As an aid in the prevention of bacterial diarrhea (scours), 
feed 50 grams per ton of complete feed. For the treatment of bacterial 
scours, feed 100-200 grams. For prevention or treatment of bacterial 
scours, feed 0.1 to 5 milligrams per pound of body weight daily. 

_BEEF AND DAIRY_- As an aid in reducing incidence and severity 
of bloat, provide 75 milligrams of oxytetracycline hydrochloride per 
animal daily. To reduce incidence of liver abscesses, supply 75 milligrams 
of oxytetracycline activity per head daily. To prevent or treat 
bacterial diarrhea, furnish 0.1 to 5 milligrams per pound of body weight 
daily. For the prevention or treatment of the early stages of shipping 
fever complex, increase feeding level to 0.5 to 2 grams per head 
per day. For the best results, feed this level to cattle 3 to 5 days 
preceding shipment and/or 3 to 5 days following their arrival in your 
feed lot. For treatment of shipping fever, this level should be fed 
at the onset of the disease symptoms until symptoms disappear. _SHEEP_- 
To increase rate of gain and improve feed efficiency, feed 10 
to 20 grams per ton. As an aid in the prevention of bacterial diarrhea 
(scours), feed 50 grams per ton. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Chlortetracycline 
(Aureomycin) _WHAT IT DOES:_ Increases gains, 
improves feed efficiency, and reduces losses from bacterial infections 
listed under "how to feed" section. Milk production may be increased 
by the anti-infective properties of this drug. _HOW TO FEED: 
BEEF_- Not less than 70 milligrams of Aureomycin per head daily 
to aid in the prevention of liver abscesses in feed-lot beef cattle. 
Prevention of bacterial pneumonia, shipping fever, as an aid in reduction 
of losses due to respiratory infections (infectious rhinotracheitis- 
shipping fever complex). Feed at level of 70 milligrams per head 
per day. Treatment of the above diseases: 350 milligrams per head 
per day for 30 days only. For prevention of these diseases during periods 
of stress such as shipping, excessive handling, vaccination, extreme 
weather conditions: 350 milligrams per head per day for 30 days 
only. As an aid in reducing bacterial diarrhea and preventing foot 
rot, feed not less than 0.1 milligram per pound of body weight daily. 
To aid in the prevention of anaplasmosis, feed not less than 0.5 milligram 
per pound of body weight daily. _DAIRY_- For calves, feed 
not less than 50 grams of Aureomycin per ton complete feed as an aid 
in preventing bacterial diarrhea and foot rot. For cows, feed providing 
an intake of 0.1 milligram of Aureomycin per pound of body weight 
daily aids in the reduction of bacterial diarrhea, in the prevention 
of foot rot, and in the reduction of losses due to respiratory infection 
(infectious rhinotracheitis- shipping fever complex). _SHEEP_- 
As an aid in reducing losses due to enterotoxemia (overeating 
disease), 
feed a complete ration containing not less than 20 and not more 
than 50 grams of Aureomycin per ton. To reduce vibrionic abortion in 
breeding sheep, feed 80 milligrams per head daily. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL 
NAME:#

Dynafac _WHAT IT DOES:_ An aid in getting cattle 
and sheep on full feed, in improving feed conversion and growth, in reducing 
bloat and founder, and in controlling scours. _HOW TO FEED: 
BEEF AND DAIRY CALVES_- 0.2 gram Dynafac per head daily (1 gram 
of premix per head daily) for promoting growth, feed conversion, bloom, 
and full feed earlier. _FEEDER CATTLE_- .0044% Dynafac in 
a complete ration or 0.3 to 0.4 gram per head per day (200 grams of premix 
per ton complete ration or equivalent. Animals consuming 20 pounds 
feed daily receive 2 grams Dynafac). Aids in minimizing the occurrence 
of feed-lot bloat due to high consumption of concentrates. _SHEEP 
AND LAMBS_- 1.0 gram premix per head per day for promoting growth, 
feed conversion, and getting lambs on full feed earlier. 

#DRUG'S 
CHEMICAL NAME:#

Diethylstilbestrol _WHAT IT DOES:_ Increases 
rate of gain and improves feed efficiency. _HOW TO FEED: BEEF 
CATTLE_- 10 milligrams of diethylstilbestrol per head daily. 
This may be incorporated in complete feeds at the level of 0.4 milligram 
of diethylstilbestrol per pound of ration- assuming animal consumes 
about 25 pounds daily. The drug is also incorporated in supplements. 
These are to be fed at a rate to provide 10 milligrams ~DES 
per head daily. The recommended 10-milligram daily intake level should 
be maintained. It may be incorporated into cattle creep feeds in levels 
from 1.0 to 1.5 milligrams of diethylstilbestrol per pound of feed. 

_SHEEP FATTENING RATIONS_- The recommended level for sheep is 
2 milligrams daily, and this level should be maintained. Include supplement 
containing 0.4 to 2 milligrams per pound to provide 2 milligrams 
per head per day. _CAUTION:_ Discontinue medication 48 hours 
before slaughter. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Hydroxazine hydrochloride 

_WHAT IT DOES:_ Improves growth rate and feed efficiency 
of fattening beef animals. _HOW TO FEED:_ At the rate of 2-1/2 
milligrams per head per day. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Iodinated 
casein _WHAT IT DOES:_ Drug elevates the metabolic rate of 
the cow. Fed to dairy cattle to increase milk production and butterfat 
percentage. _HOW TO FEED:_ 1 to 1-1/2 grams per 100 pounds of 
body weight. _CAUTION:_ Cows receiving drug may not be officially 
tested under breed registry testing programs. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL 
NAME:#

Bacterial and fungal enzymes. (These enzyme preparations 
appear on today's feed tags as fermentation extracts of Bacillus subtilis, 
Apergillus orzae, Niger, and Flavus.) _WHAT IT DOES:_ 
Improves utilization of low-moisture corn (less than 14%). _HOW 
TO FEED:_ Greatest benefits have been associated with feeding low-moisture 
corn in beef-feeding programs. Several firms are merchandising 
enzyme preparation through feed manufacturers. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL 
NAME:#

Ronnel _WHAT IT DOES:_ Effectively controls cattle 
grubs which damage hides and can reduce gains. _HOW TO FEED:_ 
Drug 
is added to either a protein or mineral supplement for a period of 
7 or 14 days. Follow manufacturer's recommendation carefully. _CAUTION:_ 
Do not feed to dairy cows and do not feed within 60 days 
of slaughter. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Methyl polysiloxanes _WHAT 
IT DOES:_ Aids in preventing foamy bloat. _HOW TO FEED:_ 
For prevention of foamy bloat, feed at a rate of 0.5 to 2 milligrams 
per head per day in mineral or salt or feed. For treatment of bloat, 
drug is fed at a higher level. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Phenothiazine 

_WHAT IT DOES:_ Reduces losses from stomach, hookworm, 
and nodular worms by interfering with reproduction of the female 
worm by reducing the number of eggs laid and essentially rendering all 
laid eggs sterile. Also, aids in the control of horn flies by preventing 
them from hatching in the droppings. _HOW TO FEED:_ Treat 
cattle with 10 grams per 100 pounds body weight with a maximum of 70 
grams per animal. Then, for the above parasites, feed continuously at 
these levels: Feeder cattle- 2-5 grams of phenothiazine daily; 
beef calves- .5 to 1.5 grams daily depending on weight of animal. Treat 
lambs with 12 grams per head for lambs weighing up to 50 pounds; 
treat lambs over 50 pounds and adults with 24 grams per animal. For 
continuous control, feed 1 part phenothiazine to 9 parts minerals or 
salts. To include in feed, add phenothiazine to supply 0.5 to 1 gram 
per sheep daily. _CAUTION:_ Continuous administration is not recommended 
for lactating cows. Following single-dose treatment, milk 
should be discarded for 4 days following treatment. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL 
NAME:#

Procaine penicillin _WHAT IT DOES:_ Aids in reducing 
the incidence and severity of bloat in beef or dairy cattle on legume 
pasture. _HOW TO FEED:_ Feed 75,000 units or 75 milligrams 
per head daily. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Sodium propionate _WHAT 
IT DOES:_ For the prevention or treatment of acetonemia (ketosis) 
in dairy cows. _HOW TO FEED:_ For the prevention of acetonemia 
(ketosis) feed 1/4 pound per day beginning at calving and continuing 
for 6 weeks. For the treatment of ketosis feed 1/4 to 1/2 pound 
per day for 10 days. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Sulfaquinoxaline 

_WHAT IT DOES:_ Helps control shipping dysentery and coccidiosis 
in lambs. _HOW TO FEED: LAMBS_- feed at .05% level for 
2 or 3 days. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Dried rumen bacteria _WHAT 
IT DOES:_ Stimulates rumen activity. _HOW TO FEED:_ Incorporated 
in commercially prepared feed at proper levels. 

#DRUG'S 
CHEMICAL NAME:#

Calcium and sodium lactate _WHAT IT DOES:_ 
Prevents and treats acetonemia (ketosis) in dairy cows. _HOW TO FEED:_ 
For prevention of ketosis, feed 1/4 pound per head daily for 
6 weeks commencing at calving time. For treatment of ketosis, feed 
1/2 pound daily until symptoms disappear. Then, feed preventive dose 
until 6 weeks after calving. 

#DRUG'S CHEMICAL NAME:#

Promazine 
hydrochloride _WHAT IT DOES:_ A tranquilizer fed to cattle (other 
than lactating dairy cows) prior to their being subjected to stress 
conditions such as vaccinating, shipping, weaning calves, and excessive 
handling. _HOW TO FEED:_ Not less than .75 milligram but not 
more than 1.25 milligrams of additive per pound of body weight. _CAUTION:_ 
Additive should not be fed 72 hours before animals are 
slaughtered. 
There are three principal feed bunk types for dairy and beef cattle: 
(1) Fence-line bunks- cattle eat from one side while feed 
is put in from the opposite side of the fence by self-unloading wagons; 
(2) Mechanized bunks- they sit within the feed lot, are filled 
by a mechanical conveyor above feeding surface; (3) Special bunks- 
as discussed here, they permit cattle to eat from all sides. Feed is 
put in with an elevator.   Several materials or combinations of 
materials can be used to construct a satisfactory feed bunk. The selection 
of materials depends on skills of available labor for installation, 
cost of materials available locally, and your own preference. No 
one material is best for all situations. Selecting bunks by economic 
comparison is usually an individual problem. 

#FENCE-LINE FEEDING.# 

Animals eat only from one side, so the fence-line bunk must be twice 
as long as the mechanical bunk. These bunks also serve as a fence, 
so part of the additional cost must be attributed to the fence. Because 
of their location, on the edge of the feed lot, fence-line bunks are 
not in the way of mechanical manure removal. Filling these bunks by 
the same self-unloading wagons used to fill silos spreads cost of the 
wagons over more time and operations.   All-weather roads must 
be provided next to the feeding floor so access will be possible all 
year. This will be a problem in areas of heavy snowfall. 
MARKETING in the new decade will be no picnic- for the sixties 
will present possibly the most intense competitive activity that you 
have experienced in the last 20-25 yr&.   Why? Companies of 
all types have made great advances in production capabilities and efficiencies- 
in modern equipment and new processes, enlarged ~R+D 
facilities, faster new product development. Many companies have upgraded 
their sales manpower and tested new selling, distribution, and promotion 
techniques to gain a bigger competitive edge.   Given this 
kind of business climate, what competitive marketing problems will your 
company face in the next 10 yr&? Based on our experience with 
clients, we see 14 major problems which fall into three broad groups- 
the market place itself, marketing methods, and marketing management. 

#1. PROBLEMS IN THE MARKET#

_@ GREATER PRICE-CONSCIOUSNESS._ 
There has been an intensification of price-consciousness in recent 
years; there is every indication it will continue. Frequently, wittingly 
or unwittingly, price-consciousness has been fostered by manufacturers, 
distributors, and dealers. Despite generally good levels of 
income, we see greater price pressures than ever before- traveling 
back along the chain from consumer to distributor to manufacturer.

Here are some key areas to examine to make sure your pricing strategy 
will be on target:   Has the probable price situation in 
your field been forecast as a basis for future planning? Have cost 
studies been made of every phase of your operation to determine what might 
be done if things get worse? Have you actually checked out (not 
just mentally tested) different selling approaches designed to counter 
the price competition problem? _@ INCREASED CUSTOMER SOPHISTICATION._ 
Average consumer is becoming more sophisticated regarding 
product and advertising claims, partly because of widespread criticism 
of such assertions. This problem can force a change in marketing approach 
in many kinds of businesses. Have you examined this problem of 
increasing consumer sophistication from the standpoint of your own company? 
_@ GREATER DEMAND FOR SERVICES._ Need for service is here 
to stay- and the problem is going to be tougher to solve in the 
sixties. There are two reasons for this. First, most products tend to 
become more complex. Second, in a competitive market, the customer 
feels his weight and throws it around.   {Providing good customer 
service requires as thorough a marketing and general management planning 
job as the original selling of the product}. Too often it is 
thought of at the last moment of new product introduction.   Good 
service starts with product design and planning: Many products seem 
to be designed for a production economy, not for a service one. Proper 
follow-through requires training your own sales organization, and 
your distributor organizations, not only in the techniques but also 
in good customer relations.   Have you assessed the importance of 
service and given it proper attention? _@ WIDER DISCRETIONARY 
CHOICES FOR CUSTOMERS._ In spending his money today, the consumer is 
pulled in many directions. To the manufacturer of the more convenient-type 
product- the purchase of which can be switched, delayed, or 
put off entirely- the implications are important. Your competition 
is now proportionately greater- you are competing not only against manufacturers 
in the same field but also against a vast array of manufacturers 
of other appealing consumer products.   Many industry trade 
associations are developing campaigns to protect or enhance the share 
of the consumer's dollar being spent on their particular products. 
Has your company thought through its strategy in this whole "discretionary 
buying" area? _@ GEOGRAPHIC SHIFT OF CUSTOMERS._ 
The trends have been in evidence for many years- population shifts 
to the Southwest and Far West, and from city to suburbs. These shifts 
will continue in the next 10 yr&. Have you considered the implications 
of continuing geographic shifts in terms of sales force allocation, 
strength of distributor organizations, and even plant location? 
_@ MARKET CONCENTRATION AND DISTRIBUTION IN FEWER ACCOUNTS._ We 
have already witnessed great changes through mergers and acquisitions 
in the food industry- at both the manufacturing and retail ends. 
Instead of relatively small sales to many accounts, there are now larger 
sales to or through fewer accounts.   The change may require 
different products, pricing, packaging, warehousing, salesmanship, advertising 
and executive attention- practically every link in the marketing 
network may have to be adjusted. Have you examined these trends, 
forecast the effects, and planned your marketing strategy to compete 
effectively under changing circumstances? 

#2. PROBLEMS IN MARKETING 
METHODS#

_@ MORE PRIVATE LABEL COMPETITION._ In the area 
of private label competition, it is logical to expect a continuation of 
trends which have been under way during the first decade. As mass dealer 
and distributor organizations grow in size, there is every reason 
to expect them to try to share in the manufacturer's as well as the 
distributor's profits- which is, in effect, what the sale of private 
brands tends to do.   {Average manufacturer frequently has 
helped build private brand business, delivering largely the same qualities 
and styles in private brand merchandise as in branded}. Moreover, 
the larger and more aggressive mass distribution outlets and chain 
stores have insisted on high quality- and the customer seems to have 
caught on.   If you are up against private brand competition, 
have you formulated a long-term program for researching and strengthening 
your market position? If private brand competition hasn't been 
felt in your product field as yet, have you thought how you will cope 
with it if and when it does appear? _@ LESS PERSONAL SALESMANSHIP._ 
Display merchandising, backed by pre-selling through advertising 
and promotion, will continue to make strides in the sixties. It 
has multiple implications and possible headaches for your marketing program.

How can you cash in on this fast-growing type of outlet 
and still maintain relationships with older existing outlets which are 
still important? If you have a higher-quality product, how can you 
make it stand out- justify its premium price- without the spoken 
word? Salesmanship is still necessary, but it's a different brand 
of salesmanship.   Have you carefully examined the selling techniques 
which best suit your products? Have you studied the caliber 
and sales approaches of your sales force in relation to requirements 
for effective marketing? Are you experimenting with different selling 
slants in developing new customers? _@ HIGHER COSTS OF DISTRIBUTION 
GENERALLY._ Some distribution costs are kept up by competitive 
pressure, some by the fact that the customers have come to expect 
certain niceties and flourishes. {No manufacturer has taken the initiative 
in pointing out the costs involved}.   The use of bulk 
handling is continuously growing. Computers are being used to keep branch 
inventories at more workable levels. "Selective selling"- 
concentrating sales on the larger accounts- has been used effectively 
by some manufacturers.   There may be possible economies at any 
one of a number of links in your marketing and distribution chain. Do 
you have a program for scrutinizing all these links regularly and carefully- 
and with some imagination? In your sales force, will a 
smaller number of higher-priced, high-quality salesmen serve you best, 
or can you make out better with a larger number of lower-paid salesmen?

Will your trade customers settle for less attention and 
fewer frills in return for some benefit they can share? In one company 
covering the country with a high-quality sales force of 10 men, the 
president personally phones each major account every 6 mos&. As a 
result, distribution costs were cut, customer relations improved.

Distribution costs are almost bound to increase in the sixties- 
and you will never know what you can do to control them unless you study 
each element and experiment with alternative ways of doing the job. 
_@ HIGHER COSTS OF ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION._ From the manufacturer's 
point of view, the increasing cost of advertising and promotion 
is a very real problem to be faced in the sixties. It is accentuated 
by the need for pre-selling goods, and private label competition.

How much fundamental thinking and research has your company 
done on its advertising program? Are you following competition willy-nilly- 
trying to match dollar for dollar- or are you experimenting 
with new means for reaching and influencing consumers? Have you 
evaluated the proper place of advertising and all phases of promotion 
in your total marketing program- from the standpoint of effort, money, 
and effectiveness? _@ INCREASING TEMPO OF NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT._ 
Practically all forecasts mention new and exciting products 
on the horizon. Will you be out in the market place with some of these 
sales-building new products?   If competition beats you to it, 
this exciting new product era can have real headaches in store. On 
the other hand, the process of obsoleting an old product and introducing 
the new one is usually mighty expensive. As markets become larger 
and marketing more complex, the costs of an error become progressively 
larger.   Is your ~R+D or product development program tuned 
in to the commercial realities of the market? Are there regular communications 
from the field, or meetings of sales and marketing personnel 
with ~R+D people? {Technical knowledge is a wonderful thing, 
but it's useless unless it eventually feeds the cash register}.

Are there individuals in your organization who can shepherd 
a new product through to commercialization; who can develop reliable 
estimates of sales volume, production, and distribution costs; and 
translate the whole into profit and loss and balance sheet figures which 
management can act on with some assurance? We have seen good new 
products shelved because no one had the assignment to develop such facts 
and plans- and management couldn't make up its mind. 

#3. PROBLEMS 
IN MARKETING MANAGEMENT#

_@ SHORTAGE OF SKILLED SALESMEN._ 
There is a shortage of salesmen today. In the future, quantitative 
demand will be greater because of the expansion of the economy, and 
the qualitative need will be greater still.   While many companies 
have done fine work in developing sales personnel, much of it has been 
product rather than sales training. Nor has the training been enough 
in relation to the need. Most marketing people agree it is going 
to take redoubled efforts to satisfy future requirements.   Have 
you estimated your sales manpower needs for the future (both quantitatively 
and qualitatively)? Has your company developed selection and 
training processes that are geared to providing the caliber of salesmen 
you will need in the next 10 yr&? _@ SHORTAGE OF SALES MANAGEMENT 
TALENT._ With the growing complexity of markets and intensity 
of competition, sales management, whether at the district, region or 
headquarters level, is a tough job today- and it will be tougher in 
the future. Men qualified for the broader task of marketing manager 
are even more scarce due to the demanding combination of qualifications 
called for by this type of management work. The growth of business 
has outdistanced the available supply, and the demand will continue to 
exceed the supply in the sixties.   Does your company have a program 
for selecting and developing sales and marketing management personnel 
for the longer term? Does your management climate and your management 
compensation plan attract and keep top-notch marketing people? 
_@ COMPLEXITY OF COMPLETE MARKETING PLANNING._ Every single 
problem touched on thus far is related to good marketing planning. "Hip-pocket" 
tactics are going to be harder to apply. Many food and 
beverage companies are already on a highly planned basis. They have 
to be. With greater investments in plant facilities, with automation 
growing, you can't switch around, either in volume or in product 
design, as much as was formerly possible- or at least not as economically.

Are planning and strategy development emphasized sufficiently 
in your company? We find too many sales and marketing executives 
so burdened with detail that they are short-changing planning.

Are annual marketing plans reviewed throughout your management 
group to get the perspective of all individuals and get everyone on the 
marketing team? Do you have a long-term (5- or 10-yr&) marketing 
program?   The key to effective marketing is wrapped up in defining 
your company's marketing problems realistically. Solutions 
frequently suggest themselves when you accurately pinpoint your problems, 
whether they be in the market, in marketing methods or in marketing 
management.   If companies will take the time to give objective 
consideration to their major problems and to the questions they provoke, 
then a long constructive step will have been taken toward more effective 
marketing in next decade. 
The controversy of the last few years over whether architects or interior 
designers should plan the interiors of modern buildings has brought 
clearly into focus one important difference of opinion. The architects 
do not believe that the education of the interior designer is sufficiently 
good or sufficiently extended to compare with that of the architect 
and that, therefore, the interior designer is incapable of understanding 
the architectural principles involved in planning the interior 
of a building.   Ordinary politeness may have militated against 
this opinion being stated so badly but anyone with a wide acquaintance 
in both groups and who has sat through the many round tables, workshops 
or panel discussions- whatever they are called- on this subject 
will recognize that the final, boiled down crux of the matter is 
education.   It is true that most architectural schools have five 
year courses, some even have six or more. The element of public danger 
which enters so largely into architectural certification, however, 
would demand a prolonged study of structure. This would, naturally, 
lengthen their courses far beyond the largely esthetic demands of interior 
designer's training.   We may then dismiss the time difference 
between these courses and the usual four year course of the interior 
design student as not having serious bearing on the subject. The 
real question that follows is- how are those four years used and what 
is their value as training?   The American Institute of Interior 
Designers has published a recommended course for designers and 
a percentage layout of such a course. An examination of some forty 
catalogs of schools offering courses in interior design, for the most 
part schools accredited by membership in the National Association of 
Schools of Art, and a further "on the spot" inspection of a number 
of schools, show their courses adhere pretty closely to the recommendations. 
One or two of the schools have a five year curriculum, but 
the usual pattern of American education has limited most of them to 
the four-year plan which seems to be the minimum in acceptable institutions.

The suggested course of the A&I&D& was based 
on the usual course offered and on the opinion of many educators as to 
curricular necessities. Obviously, the four year provision limits this 
to fundamentals and much desirable material must be eliminated.

Without comparing the relative merits of the two courses- architecture 
versus interior design- let us examine the educational needs 
of the interior designer.   To begin with, what is an interior 
designer? "The Dictionary of Occupational Titles" published 
by the U& S& Department of Labor describes him as follows: "Designs, 
plans and furnishes interiors of houses, commercial and institutional 
structures, hotels, clubs, ships, theaters, as well as set 
decorations for motion picture arts and television. Makes drawings and 
plans of rooms showing placement of furniture, floor coverings, wall 
decorations, and determines color schemes.   Furnishes complete 
cost estimates for clients approval. Makes necessary purchases, places 
contracts, supervises construction, installation, finishing and placement 
of furniture, fixtures and other correlated furnishings, and follows 
through to completion of project".   In addition to this 
the U& S& Civil Service Bureau, when examining applicants for 
government positions as interior designers, expects that "when various 
needed objects are not obtainable on the market he will design them. 
He must be capable of designing for and supervising the manufacture 
of any craft materials needed in the furnishings".   This 
seems like a large order. The interior designer, then, must first be 
an artist but also understand carpentry and painting and lighting and 
plumbing and finance. Yet nobody will question the necessity of all this 
and any reputable interior designer does know all this and does practice 
it. And further he must understand his obligation to the client 
to not only meet his physical necessities but also to enhance and improve 
his life and to enlarge the cultural horizon of our society.

Few will quarrel with the aim of the schools or with the wording 
of their curriculum. It is in the quality of the teaching of all this 
that a question may arise.   The old established independent art 
schools try their best to fulfill their obligations. Yet even here 
many a problem is presented; as in a recent design competition with 
a floor plan and the simple command- "design a luxury apartment"; 
no description of the client or his cultural level, no assertion of 
geographical area or local social necessities- simply "a luxury 
apartment". Working in a vacuum of minimal information can result only 
in show pieces that look good in exhibitions and catalogs and may 
please the public relations department but have little to do with the 
essence of interior design.   It is possible, of course, to work 
on extant or projected buildings where either architect or owner will 
explain their necessities so that the student may get "the feel" 
of real interior design demands. Unfortunately, the purely synthetic 
problem is the rule.   It is like medical schools in India where, 
in that fairy-land of religious inhibition, the dissection of dead 
bodies is frowned upon. Instead they learn their dissection on the bulbs 
of plants. Thus technical efficiency is achieved at the expense 
of actual experience.   In the earlier years of training certain 
phases of the work must be covered and the synthetic problem has its 
use. But to continue to divorce advanced students from reality is inexcusable.

Consultation with architects, clients, real estate men, 
fabric houses and furniture companies is essential to the proper development 
of class problems just as in actual work. Fortunately, although 
only a few years ago they held the student at arms length, today 
the business houses welcome the opportunity to aid the student, not only 
from an increased sense of community responsibility but also from 
the realization that the student of today is the interior designer of 
tomorrow- that the student already is "in the trade".   Even 
the "history of furniture" can hardly be taught exclusively from 
photographs and lantern slides. Here, too, the reality of actual furniture 
must be experienced.   The professional organizations such 
as American Institute of Interior Designers, National Society 
of Interior Designers, Home Fashions League and various trade associations, 
can and do aid greatly in this work. Certainly every educator 
involved in interior design should be a member and active in thework 
of one of these organizations.   Not only should every educator 
above the rank of instructor be expected to be a member of one of 
the professional organizations, but his first qualification for membership 
as an educator should be so sharply scrutinized that membership 
would be equivalent to certification to teach the subject.

Participation for the educator in this case, however, would have to 
be raised to full and complete membership. The largest of these organizations 
at present denies to the full time educator any vote on the 
conduct and standards of the group and, indeed, refuses him even the 
right to attach the customary initials after his name in the college catalog.

This anomalous status of the educator cannot fail to lower 
his standing in the eyes of the students. The professor in turn 
dares not tolerate the influence in his classes of an organization in 
the policies and standards of which he has no voice.   This seems 
somewhat shortsighted since if the absolute educational qualifications 
for membership which the organizations profess are ever enforced, the 
educator will have the molding of the entire profession in his hands.

In one way the Institutes and Societies do a disservice to 
the schools. That is in the continuance of the "grandfather clauses" 
in their membership requirements.   When these groups were 
first formed many prominent and accomplished decorators could not have 
had the advantage of school training since interior design courses were 
rare and 
undeveloped during their youth. Long hard years of "on the 
job" training had brought them to their competence.   The necessity 
of that day has long disappeared. There is plenty of opportunity 
for proper education today. It is discouraging for students to realize 
that the societies do not truly uphold the standards for which they 
are supposed to stand.   The reason and the day of "grandfather 
clauses" has long since passed. No one can deny that these "back 
door" admissions to membership provisions have been seriously abused 
nor that they have not resulted in the admission of downright incompetents 
to membership in supposedly learned societies.   Beyond 
any question of curriculum and approach to subject must be the quality 
of the teachers themselves. It will occur to anyone that the teacher 
must have adequate education, a depth and breadth of knowledge far 
beyond the immediate necessities of his course plus complete dedication 
to his subject and to his students. The local decorator who rushes 
in for a few hours of teaching may but more likely may not have these 
qualifications.   Nor will the hack, the Jack-of-all-trades, still 
found in some of the smaller art schools, suffice.   Only a 
few years ago a middle western college circulated a request for a teacher 
of interior design. At the end of its letter was the information 
that applicants for this position "must also be prepared to teach costume 
design and advertising art". This kind of irresponsibility toward 
their students can scarcely build a strong professional attitude 
in the future designer.   We must build a corp of highly professional 
teachers of interior design who have had education, experience 
in the profession and are willing to take on the usual accompaniments 
of teaching- minimal income and minimal status among their confreres.

Considerable specialization in teaching subjects such as architecture, 
furniture design, textiles and color is also desirable.

In all "degree" courses in interior design a number of "academic" 
or "general studies" courses are included. It is only fair 
to demand that teachers of courses in English, history, psychology 
and so on be as well informed in matters of art, especially interior 
design, as are the art teachers educated in the academic subjects. The 
proper correlation of the art with the academic can be achieved only 
if this standard is observed. The matter of sympathy of the academic 
professors for art objectives also must be taken into account. 
One technical question of school organization comes to mind here. For 
proper accreditation of schools, teachers in any course must have 
a degree at least one level above that for which the student is a candidate. 
Since there are almost no schools in the country offering graduate 
work in interior design this rule cannot at present be observed. 
Indeed, it has only been a matter of the last few years that reputable 
schools of art have granted degrees at all. The question, however, 
cannot be ignored for long. The basic problem involved is that a college 
setting up a graduate school must have an entirely separate faculty 
for the advanced degree. Most professors in the course must, naturally, 
again have a higher degree than the course offers. One solution 
is the aquisition of degrees in education but it is a poor substitute. 
It is a sort of academic ring-around-a rosy and you solve it. 
This brings us to the question of accreditation of art schools in general. 
Only the independent art schools, that is, those not connected 
with any university or college, receive severe and separate investigation 
before accreditation by the various regional organizations. It has 
been the custom for most universities to stretch the blanket of accreditation 
for their liberal arts school to cover the shivering body of 
their fine arts department. This, plus the habit of many schools of 
simply adding interior design to the many subjects of their home economics 
department, yet, nevertheless, claiming that they teach interior 
design, has contributed to the low repute of many university courses 
in interior design. In spite of this, many universities offer adequate 
and even distinguished courses in the subject.   There will be 
no mitigation of these offences until all art schools, whether independent 
or attached to universities have separate accreditation- as do 
medical schools- by an art accreditation group such as the "National 
Association of Schools of Art".   Independent art schools 
granting degrees must, naturally, follow this with academic accreditation 
by the appropriate regional group. 

#GENERAL#

How long has it been since you reviewed the objectives 
of your benefit and service program? Have you permitted it to become 
a giveaway program rather than one that has the goal of improved employee 
morale and, consequently, increased productivity?   What 
effort do you make to assess results of your program? Do you measure 
its relation to reduced absenteeism, turnover, accidents, and grievances, 
and to improved quality and output?   Have you set specific 
objectives for your employee publication? Is it reaching these 
goals? Is it larger or fancier than you really need? Are you using 
the most economical printing methods, paper, etc&. Are there other, 
cheaper communications techniques that could be substituted?

Has your attitude toward employee benefits encouraged an excess 
of free "government" work in your plant?   Is your purchasing 
agent offering too much free-buying service for employees?

When improvements are recommended in working conditions- such as 
lighting, rest rooms, eating facilities, air-conditioning- do you try 
to set a measure of their effectiveness on productivity?   When 
negotiating with your union, do you make sure employees have a choice 
between new benefits and their cents-per-hour cost in wages.

Can you consider restricting any additional employee benefits to those 
paid for by profit-sharing money, such as was done in the union contract 
recently signed by American Motors Corporation? 

#INSURANCE# 

Do your employees understand all the benefits to which your insurance 
entitles them? Are they encouraged to take full legal advantage 
of these benefits? Have you publicized the cents-per-hour value 
of the company's share of insurance premiums?   When did you 
last compare your present premium costs with the costs of insurance 
from other sources?   Can your insurance company aid you in reducing 
administrative costs?   Do you try to maintain the principle 
of employee-contributed (as opposed to fully company-paid) programs? 

#HOLIDAYS, TIME OFF, OVERTIME#

Do you protect your holiday 
privileges with an attendance requirement both before and after the holiday?

Do you plan to limit additional holidays to area and/or 
industrial patterns?   Have you investigated the possibility 
of moving midweek holidays forward to Monday or back to Friday in 
order to have an uninterrupted work week?   Are you carefully 
policing wash-up time and rest periods to be certain that all other time 
is productive?   Are you watching work schedules for boiler 
operators, guards, and other 24-hour-day, 7-day-week operations in order 
to minimize overtime?   Are you careful to restrict the number 
of people on leave at one time so that your total employment obligation 
is minimized? 

#PLANT FEEDING FACILITIES#

Have you considered 
using vending equipment to replace or reduce the number of cafeteria 
employees?   What are the possibilities for operating your 
cafeteria for a single shift only and relying upon vending machines 
or prepackaged sandwiches for the second- and third-shift operations?

Have you checked the cost of subcontracting your cafeteria 
operation in order to save administrative costs?   Are there 
possibilities of having cafeteria help work part-time on custodial or 
other jobs?   Can staggered lunch periods relieve the capacity 
strain on your feeding facilities?   Would it be feasible to 
limit the menu in order to reduce feeding costs?   Have you considered 
gradual withdrawal of subsidies to your in-plant feeding operation?

Are you utilizing cafeteria space for company meetings 
or discussions? 

#RECREATION FACILITIES#

Are your expenses in 
this area commensurate with the number of employees who benefit from 
your program?   Have you audited your program recently to weed 
out those phases that draw least participation?   Do employees 
contribute their share of money to recreational facilities? 
Have you considered delegating operational responsibility to your employee 
association and carefully restricting your plant's financial 
contribution?   Could an employee's garden club take over partial 
care of plant grounds? Would a camera club be useful in taking 
pictures pertinent to plant safety?   Are you spending too much 
money on team uniforms that benefit only a few employees? Are you 
underwriting expensive team trips?   Are you utilizing vending 
machine proceeds to help pay for your program? 

#TRANSPORTATION 
AND PARKING#

Do you know the trend in your cost of maintaining access 
roads and parking lots?   If you use parking attendants, can 
they be replaced by automatic parking gates?   Will your local 
bus company erect and/or maintain the bus stops at your plant?

If you provide inter-plant transportation, can this be replaced 
by available public transportation? If you use company transportation 
to meet trains or to haul visitors, would taxis be cheaper?

How efficient and necessary are your intra-company vehicles? Can 
they be re-scheduled? Can part-time drivers be assigned to other 
productive work? 

#PAID VACATIONS#

Which is more economical for 
your plant- a vacation shutdown or spaced vacations that require extra 
employees for vacation fill-ins?   Can vacations be spaced 
throughout the 12 months to minimize the number of employee fill-ins?

Do you insist that unneeded salary employees take their vacations 
during plant shutdowns?   What can your sales and purchasing 
departments do to curtail orders, shipments, and receipts during vacation 
shutdown periods? 

#RETIREMENT#

Is an arbitrary retirement 
age of 65 actually costing your plant money?   What sort of 
effort do you make to assure that older or disabled workers are fully 
productive? Would early retirement of non-productive, disabled employees 
reduce the number of make-work jobs?   Will your union 
accept seniority concessions in assigning work for older or disabled employees? 

#MEDICAL AND HEALTH#

Can you share medical facilities 
and staff with neighboring plants?   If you have a full-time 
doctor now, can he be replaced with a part-time doctor or one who serves 
on a fee-per-case basis only?   Can your plant nurse be replaced 
by a trained first-aid man who works full-time on some other assignment?

Do you rigidly distinguish between job- and non-job-connected 
health problems and avoid treating the latter?   Are 
you indiscriminantly offering unnecessary medical services- flu shots, 
sun lamp treatments, etc&?   If you have an annual or regular 
physical examination program, is it worth what it is costing you? 

#A PROGRAM TO FIT YOUR NEEDS#

Consider what you can afford 
to spend and what your goals are before setting up or revamping your employee 
benefit program. Too many plant officials are all too eager to 
buy a package program from an insurance company simply because it works 
for another plant.   But even if that other plant employs the 
same number of workers and makes the same product, there are other facts 
to consider. How old is your working force? What's your profit 
margin? In what section of the country are you located? Are 
you in a rural or urban area? These factors can make the difference 
between waste and efficiency in any benefit program.   Above all, 
don't set up extravagant fringe benefits just to buy employee good 
will. Unions stress fringe benefits, but the individual hourly worker 
prefers cash every time.   Aim to balance your employee benefit 
package. Some plants go overboard on one type of fringe- say a liberal 
retirement plan- and find themselves vulnerable elsewhere. They're 
asking for union trouble. 

#COMMUNICATIONS#

If you want credit 
for your employee services program, let your workers know what they're 
entitled to. Encourage them to exercise their benefits. This 
can be done by stories in your house organs, posters, special 
publications, letters to workers' homes as well as 
by word of mouth through your chain of command.   Some companies 
find a little imagination helpful. Hallmark Cards, Inc&, Kansas 
City, Mo&, has a do-it-yourself quiz game called "Benefit Bafflers", 
which it distributes to employees. ~M + ~R Dietetic Laboratories, 
Inc&, Columbus, gives all its workers a facsimile checkbook- 
each check showing the amount the company spends on a particular 
fringe. U& S& Rubber Company, New York, passes out a form 
itemizing the value of benefits. The blue-collar worker thus knows 
his insurance package, for example, costs $227.72. 

#INSURANCE#

Have 
the insurance company or your own accounting department break down 
the cost of your insurance package periodically. You may find certain 
coverage costing much more than is economically feasible, thereby alerting 
you to desirable revisions.   Check to see if some of your 
benefits- such as on-the-job disability pay- can be put on a direct 
payment rather than an insured basis at a savings to you. 
Use deductable insurance wherever feasible. It can put an end to marginal 
claims which play havoc with your insurance rates. Also, beware 
of open-end policies, especially in the medical field. This will mean 
that every time there's an increase in hospital rates your cost will 
go up in like manner. Put a dollar-and-cents limit on benefits.

Don't go overboard on insurance that pays benefits only upon death. 
Generally, your employee will greatly appreciate benefits that 
protect him during his working life or during retirement. 

#SPECIAL TIME 
OFF#

In granting bereavement leaves, specify the maximum time off 
and list what the worker's relation to the deceased must be to qualify. 
Thus, you avoid headaches when an employee wants off for his fourth 
cousin's funeral. Also, reserve the right to demand proof of 
death despite the fact that you'll probably never use it.   Coffee 
breaks can be a real headache if not regulated. Vending machines 
can alleviate the long hike to the cafeteria during the break with resulting 
waste of production time. If coffee is sold at the cafeteria, 
let a few workers in each department get it for the whole group. Consider 
installing supplemental serving lines in production areas. Make 
sure milk for the coffee is placed in dispensers rather than in containers, 
if you are supplying the coffee. Otherwise, you may be saddled 
with a good-size milk bill by milk drinkers. 

#RETIREMENT POLICIES# 

Keep the retirement age flexible so skilled craftsmen such as tool 
and die makers can be kept on the job for the convenience of the company. 
And so deadheads on the payroll can be eased out at the earliest 
possible age. Make sure you have minimum age and time-on-the-job requirements 
tied into your pension plan. Younger men usually don't think 
of pensions as an important job benefit factor anyhow and they're 
liable to change jobs several times before settling down.   Choose 
carefully between contributory or non-contributory pension plans. 
There are two sides of a coin for this decision. Workers usually think 
more of a plan they contribute to. And they can at least collect 
the money they put in, plus interest, when they leave the company. A 
non-contributory plan usually won't pay off for the worker until he 
retires. Thus, there is an added incentive to stay on the job. 

#HOLIDAYS# 

Make sure you don't pay for holidays that occur when an employee 
would not otherwise be working. These include: leaves of absences, 
illnesses, and layoffs.   Consider adopting a system of holidays 
in which time off is granted with an eye to minimum inconvenience 
to the operation of the plant. It's usually not too hard to sell 
workers on this as it gives them longer holiday periods. For example, 
the Friday after Thanksgiving can be substituted for Washington's 
birthday. This reduces the number of expensive plant shutdowns and 
startups.   Require each employee to work his last shift both 
before and after the holiday to be eligible for pay. This cuts the absentee 
rate. 

#EATING FACILITIES#

Consider using vending machines 
rather than subsidized cafeterias. Latest models serve hot meals at reasonable 
prices, and at a profit to you. If a concessionaire runs the 
cafeteria, keep an eye out for quality and price. If the soup tastes 
like dishwater, your employees won't blame the concessionaire. You'll 
take the rap.   Check your cafeteria location to make sure 
it's convenient for most employees. You may save valuable production 
minutes with a change. 

#VACATIONS#

Spread your vacation period 
over the widest possible span of time or shut the plant down for two 
weeks. This will cut the expense of vacation replacements. And with 
the shutdown method there will be no argument as to who gets the choice 
vacation dates.   Also make sure you have reasonable requirements 
as to hours worked before a production employee is entitled to a 
vacation. You might try providing standard vacation time off but make 
the vacation pay depend on the number of hours worked in the previous 
year. 
THE LONG and ever-increasing column of sportsmen is now moving into 
a new era. Modern times have changed the world beyond recognition. 
The early years of the twentieth century seem very far away. But with 
all the changes in philosophy, dress and terrain- a few things remain 
constant, including the devotion of Americans to the great field 
sports, hunting and fishing.   As the generations move on, clothes 
become more suitable for the enjoyment of outdoor sports. Sporting 
firearms change, markedly for the better. Just as modern transportation 
has outmoded the early Studebaker covered wagon, the demand of 
today's sportsmen and women has necessitated changes in their equipment.

The American firearms and ammunition manufacturers through 
diligent research and technical development have replaced the muzzle 
loader and slow-firing single-shot arms with modern fast firing auto-loaders, 
extremely accurate bolt, lever, and slide action firearms. And 
millions of rounds of entirely new and modern small-arms ammunition, 
designed for today's hunting and target shooting.   And due 
to modern resource-use and game management practices, there is still 
game to shoot, even with the ever-expanding encroachment on land and 
water. Present conservation practices regard wildlife, not as an expendable 
natural resource, but as an annual harvest to be sown and also 
reaped. Unlimited game bags are possible and legal in more than 40 states, 
on shooting preserves (one of the newer phases of modern game-management) 
for five and six months each year.   Close to two million 
game birds were harvested on 1,500 commercial and private shooting 
preserves, and on State Game Commission-controlled upland game areas 
during the 1960-61 season. The shooting development program of the 
Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers' Institute has successfully 
published these facts in all major outdoor magazines, many national 
weeklies and the trade papers.   The most effective way to 
develop more places for more sportsmen to shoot is to encourage properly 
managed shooting preserves. This has been the aim of the director 
of the shooting development program, the New York staff of the Sportsmen's 
Service Bureau, and the ~SAAMI shooting preserve 
field consultants since the start of the program in 1954.   Following 
the kick-off of ~SAAMI's shooting development program 
in 1954, a most interesting meeting took place in Washington, D& C&. 
The group known as the American Association for Health, Physical 
Education, and Recreation (a division of the National Education 
Association) initiated a conference which brought together representatives 
of the National Rifle Association, ~SAAMI and the American 
Fishing Tackle Manufacturers. This meeting was called to 
determine how these groups might cooperate to launch what is known as 
the Outdoor Education Project.   The Outdoor Education Project 
took cognizance of the fact, so often overlooked, that athletic 
activities stressed in most school programs have little or no relationship 
to the physical and mental needs and interests of later life. The 
various team sports assuredly have their place in every school, and 
they are important to proper physical development. But with the exception 
of professional athletes, few contact sports and physical education 
activities in our schools have any carryover in the adult life of 
the average American man or woman.   Following a vigorous campaign 
of interpretation and leadership development by ~OEP director 
Dr& Julian Smith, today thousands of secondary schools, colleges 
and universities have shooting and hunting education in their physical 
education and recreation programs. ~SAAMI's financial support 
since 1955 has contributed to the success of this project in education. 
Personnel assigned through the shooting development program have 
proudly participated in over 53 state and regional workshops, at which 
hundreds of school administrators, teachers, professors, and recreational 
leaders have been introduced to Outdoor Education. Considering 
that the current school-age potential is 23 million youths, the project 
and its message on hunting and shooting education have many more 
to reach.   In 1959 ~SAAMI's shooting development program 
announced a new activity designed to expose thousands of teen-age boys 
and girls to the healthy fun enjoyed through the participation in 
the shooting sports. This program is now nationally known as "Teen 
Hunter Clubs".   Teen Hunter Clubs were initially sponsored 
by affiliated members of the Allied Merchandising Corporation. 
The first program was sponsored by Abraham + Strauss, Hempstead, New 
York, under the direction of Special Events director Jennings 
Dennis. Other pilot programs were conducted by ~A + ~S, Babylon, 
New York; J& L& Hudson, Detroit; Joseph Horne, Pittsburgh.

Other ~THC activities followed, conducted by shopping 
centers, department stores, recreation equipment dealers, radio-~TV 
stations, newspapers, and other organizations interested in the 
need existing to acquaint youngsters with the proper use of sporting 
firearms and the development of correct attitudes and appreciations 
related to hunting and wise use of our natural resources. ~SAAMI's 
field men have served as consultants and/or have participated in 
75 Teen Hunter Club activities which have reached over 40,000 enthusiastic 
young Americans.   Through the efforts of ~SAAMI's 
shooting development program these shooting activities, and many 
others, including assists in the development of public and privately 
financed shooting parks, trap and skeet leagues, rifle and pistol marksmanship 
programs have been promoted, to mention only a few.   The 
continuation and expansion of the shooting development program will 
assure to some degree that national and community leaders will be made 
aware of the ever-growing need for shooting facilities and activities 
for hunting and shooting in answer to public demand. While individual 
sportsmen are aware of this situation, too many of our political, 
social, educational and even religious leaders too often forget it. Help 
is needed from dealers, at the grass-roots level.   The American 
gun and ammunition producers sponsor a successful promotional program 
through their industry trade association. Since ~SAAMI's 
conception in 1926, and more specifically since the adoption of the 
Shooting Development Program in 1954, millions of dollars and promotional 
man-hours have gone into the development of more places to shoot 
for more youths and adults. We trust that you, as a gun and ammunition 
dealer, have benefited through additional sales of equipment.

Are you getting top dollar from the shooting sports? Are you looking 
ahead to the exploding market of millions of American boys and 
girls, who will grow up to enjoy a traditional American way of life- 
ranging the fields with a fine American gun and uniformly excellent 
ammunition?   <Is your 
sporting firearms and ammunition department 
primed for the expanding horizons?>   Would you like to 
organize Teen Hunters Clubs, shooting programs, and have information 
on seasons including six months of hunting with unlimited game bags 
on shooting preserves? Ask Sammy Shooter. 
WE WERE CAMPING a few weeks ago on Cape Hatteras Campground in 
that land of pirates, seagulls and bluefish on North Carolina's 
famed Outer Banks. This beach campground with no trees or hills presents 
a constant camping show with all manner of equipment in actual 
use.   With the whole camp exposed to view we could see the variety 
of canvas shelters in which Americans are camping now. There were 
umbrella tents, wall tents, cottage tents, station wagon tents, pup 
tents, Pop tents, Baker tents, tents with exterior frames, camper trailers, 
travel trailers, and even a few surplus parachutes serving as 
sunshades over entire family camps.   Moving around camp we saw 
all kinds of camp stoves, lanterns, coolers, bedding, games, fishing tackle, 
windbreaks and sunshades. We saw similar displays in the other 
three campgrounds in this 70 mile-long National Seashore Recreation 
Area. Dealers would do well to visit such a campground often, look 
at the equipment and talk with the campers. Here you begin to appreciate 
the scope of the challenges and possibilities facing the industry.

Camping is big and getting bigger. No one knows where it will 
stop. Almost every official who reflects on it thinks this movement 
of Americans to canvas dwellings opens one of the most promising of 
all outdoor markets. You read various guesses on how many Americans 
are camping. The number depends on who is talking at the moment. The 
figures range as high as 15 million families. I've heard 10 million 
mentioned often, but I'm more inclined to think there may be a 
total of some five to seven million families camping. Seven million families 
would total 30 million Americans or more. Consider the equipment 
needed to protect this many from the weather, to make their cooking 
easy and their sleeping comfortable. 

#MORE CAMPERS THAN CAMPSITES# 

Harassed state park officials often have more campers than they 
know what to do with. They are struggling to meet the demand for camping 
space, but families are being turned away, especially on holiday 
weekends. The National Parks, always popular camping places, are facing 
the same pressure. The National Park Service hopes by 1966 to 
have 30,000 campsites available for 100,000 campers a day- almost 
twice what there are at present. The U& S& Forest Service cares 
for hundreds of thousands of campers in its 149 National Forests 
and is increasing its facilities steadily.   But the campers still 
come. They bring their families and tents and camp kitchens and bedding. 
They bring their fishing rods and binoculars and bathing suits. 
They come prepared for family fun because Americans in ever-growing 
numbers are learning that here is the way to a fine economical vacation 
that becomes a family experience of lasting importance. 

#WHY THEY 
KEEP COMING#

There are a half dozen reasons helping to account for 
the migration to the campgrounds. Among them, according to the U& 
S& Department of Commerce, are: (1) shorter work weeks, (2) 
higher pay, (3) longer paid vacations, (4) better transportation, (5) 
earlier retirement, and (6) more education. The more people learn about 
their country, the more they want to learn. Camping is family fun, 
and it is helping more Americans see more of the country than they ever 
saw before.   But make no mistake about it, the first reason 
people turn to camping is one of economy. Here is the promise of a vacation 
trip they can afford.   The American Automobile Association, 
computing the cost for two people to vacation by automobile, comes 
up with an average daily expenditure figure of $29. The ~AAA 
then splits it down this way: $10.50 for meals, $9.50 for lodging, 
$7 for gas and oil, and $2 for tips and miscellaneous.   What does 
the camping couple do to this set of figures? The $9.50 for lodging 
they save. Because they prepare their own meals they also keep in 
their pockets a good portion of that $10.50 food bill along with most 
of the tip money. The automobile expenses are about the only vacationing 
cost they can't either eliminate or pare down drastically by camping 
along the way.   Where Americans used to think of a single 
vacation each summer, they now think about how many vacations they 
can have. Long weekends enable many to get away from home for three or 
four days several times a year. And even if they stay in resorts part 
of the time, they might, if the right salesman gets them in tow, develop 
a yearning to spice the usual vacation fare with a camping trip 
into the wide open spaces.   It would be a mistake to sell those 
thousands of beginning campers on the idea they're buying the comforts 
of home. They're not. Home is the place to find the comforts of 
home. They're buying fun and adventure and family experiences. But 
it would also be a mistake for them not to realize how comfortable 
camping has become. This is no longer a way of life for the bearded 
logger and the wandering cowboy. Today's campers want comforts, and 
they have them. And this helps explain why so many people are now going 
camping. It's fun, and it's easy- so easy that there is time 
left after cooking, and tent keeping, for the women to get out and 
enjoy outdoor fun with their families.   Camp meals are no great 
problem. Neither are beds, thanks to air mattresses and sleeping bags. 
Neither are shelters, because there is one to meet the needs of every 
camper or prospective camper.   But there is still the sometimes 
complex problem of helping campers choose the best equipment for 
their individual needs. 
@ Throughout history, the man who showed superior performance has become 
the commander of others- for good or bad. Since the Industrial 
Revolution, when factories emerged, this classical pattern has been 
followed. {Until recently.}   There have always been tales 
of disillusionment- the competent technician who became an administrator, 
willingly or not, and found he didn't like it; the scientist 
who rebelled against the personnel and paper work; and much more 
commonly in recent years, the engineer who found that other duties interfered 
with- or eliminated- his engineering contributions. {There 
have been many extremely competent men who have been converted into 
very incompetent managers or submerged in paper work, to their own and 
the public's dissatisfaction and loss.}   This has been more 
evident since our products have incorporated astronomically increased 
technology. The remedies have been many and varied- attempts to 
teach management techniques- either in plant, at special schools, 
or 
in university "crash" courses- provision of management-trained assistants 
or associates. {But the realization has been growing that 
these are not the complete answer.} Some men have no talent for or 
interest in management; forcing them into management can only create 
trouble. The old shop adage still holds: "A good mechanic is usually 
a bad boss".   Yet our economy clings inexorably to recognition 
of managerial status as the gage of success. Labor fights to 
change its collar from blue to white. All grades of management seek 
more resounding titles and incomes because of social pressures. As several 
recent books have over-emphasized, {we have become the most status-conscious 
nation in the world.}   {What can be done for 
the "individual contributor"} who is extremely important- and 
likely to be more so- in the operation of the technically oriented 
company? He is usually conscious of the social pressures at home and 
outside; usually concerned about America's belief that attainment 
and success are measured in dollars and titles. Yet titles are traditionally 
given only to management men, and income tends to rise with 
title.   Even the college professor in America has been affected. 
It is, as one engineer says, "indeed a difficult thing for the 
engineer to accept that he can go as far on his technical merit as he 
could employing managerial skills. This difficulty arises even though 
we can give examples of men who have actually followed this course. This 
leads one to conclude, as you have, that there is inevitably more 
prestige in a management position in the minds of our people".

Nobody should be more able to answer the questions on this score than 
engineering vice-presidents and chief engineers. So we asked such 
men in major companies in the design field to offer their opinions on 
the "dual-road-up" problem- and more importantly- their solutions. 
In the paragraphs that follow, we quote from 32 men who are identified 
on the final page. 

#FIRST: WHAT TITLE, WHAT SETUP?#

Among 
the more familiar plans for dual-channel advancement is that of 
General Electric. {This is not a mutually exclusive plan; there 
is no one point in a man's career at which he must select either the 
technical or the managerial path upward. Further, the management path 
does not open the door to higher opportunities than are offered by 
the more technical path. It is common to shift back and forth, working 
up through a number of supervisory and individual-contributor positions.}

Actually, there are a number of individual-contributor 
positions in both operating departments and in the company-wide "services" 
operation that are filled by men with successful managerial 
experience who are currently broadening their capabilities.   Also, 
moving into a managerial position does not necessarily end a man's 
recognition as a technical expert. As examples at ~GE: Glen 
B& Warren, formerly manager of the Turbine Division, widely recognized 
as a turbine designer. The late W& R& G& Baker, a pioneer 
in television design and long-time ~vp + ~gm of the Electronics 
Division, and later, by his own choice, an individual consultant. 
Harold E& Strang, expert in switchgear design, for a long period 
~vp + ~gm of the Measurements + Industrial Products Division, 
and who currently, approaching retirement, is vice-president and consulting 
engineer in the Switchgear + Control Division.   In 
the ~GE plan, a number of individual contributors have positions 
and compensation higher than those of many managers. These positions 
carry such titles as:   Consultant- Advanced Development

Consulting Engineer   Consulting Engineer- Heat Transfer

Consulting Electrical Engineer   Senior Electrical 
Engineer   Senior Physicist   Westinghouse has a similar 
system, with two classifications representing various levels of competence 
on the strictly technical side: consulting engineer or scientist, 
as the case may be, and advisory engineer or scientist. Many 
companies have systems, particularly in ~R + ~D, which work more 
or less well, depending upon size and actual belief in the policy on 
the part of administration, as will be abundantly apparent in subsequent 
quotations.   Another factor that may hold hope is for parallel 
recognition is, as one man says it: "**h that the fad for educating 
top people along managerial lines is yielding to the technically 
trained approach". _SENIOR STAFF ENGINEER?_ One company instituted, 
early in 1959, a vertical classification system consisting of four 
levels. There is no formal equivalence to the supervisory ranks; 
the top non-supervisory level, senior staff engineer, enjoys status 
and pay ranging up to that for the second level of engineering supervision. 
The second level, senior engineer, rates slightly below first-level 
supervision. The expectation is that first-level supervisors will 
be selected in approximately equal numbers from the second and third 
engineering level, with very few coming from the first level.

The company expects to extend upward both compensation and status for 
non-supervisory engineers, but probably not into executive levels. 
{In this organization, about half of the engineers with 15 or more 
years of employment are in supervision, engineering or elsewhere.} This 
reflects the very heavy engineering content of the products- which 
are not military. Several other examples: _CENTRAL AND SATELLITE_ 
"We have over 20 divisions- each of which has an engineering 
department headed by a chief engineer. We have set up a central ~R 
+ ~D department, as well as engineering-management departments- 
about 80 people working on problems related to those of our plants. 
A separate research department is, of course, confined to new or future 
designs. Part of this headquarters staff, however, are engineering 
managers who work between divisional chief engineers and headquarters 
management. These headquarters engineers, headed by the vice-president- 
Engineering, counsel and advise divisional managers and chief 
engineers on product problems as well as aid with design; and many are 
engineers who have been advanced from the divisions. These men are 
considered managers of engineers. They must learn to wear several hats, 
so to speak, working with management, sales and engineering problems 
related to the product.   "We do not have people in our organization 
termed 'consultants' or 'fellows', who are specialists 
in one particular technical subject. I suppose it is because we are 
just not big enough. We have a few 'consultants'- retired engineers 
retained and called in on certain problems. The only 'fellows' 
in our company are those who have been honored by ~ASME, ~AIEE 
or ~AIChE **h I am sure that the engineer who enters 
management is nearly always opening the door to greater possibilities 
than he would have as a technical specialist- because of his wider 
accountability". 

_ANOTHER STRUCTURE_ "We have tried to make both 
paths attractive, so that good men could find opportunity and satisfaction 
in either. One way to formalize this is in the job structure. 
We have these positions, which compare directly: **f   "Above 
these jobs we have chief engineer for the company and vice-president 
of ~Engrg, ~R + ~D. The latter jobs include major management 
responsibilities and have been filled by those who have come up primarily 
through the engineering-management side **h {We have not yet 
succeeded in establishing recognition of technical specialization comparable 
to our higher levels of management, but I believe we will trend 
in this direction} **h but not to exceed vice-president". _TOP 
JOB: RESEARCH SCIENTIST_ "Approximately four years ago, we 
initiated a dual ladder of advancement for technical persons **h The 
highest position is known as a 'research scientist'. This approach 
has not been entirely satisfactory. The primary deterrent appears to 
lie with the technical people themselves, and their concept of what 
constitutes status in present-day society. {Scientists who agitate 
hardest 
for technical recognition are often the most reluctant to accept 
it **h We have discovered that the outward trappings such as private 
offices and private secretaries are extremely important;} and although 
we have attempted to provide these status symbols, support of the 
'dual-ladder' plan has been half-hearted **h despite the creation 
of a salary potential for a research scientist commensurate with that 
of men in top managerial positions.   {"A serious problem 
accompanying the technical-ladder approach is the difficulty of clearly 
defining responsibilities and standards of performance for each level.} 
With no set standards, there is the tendency to promote to the 
next highest level when the top of a salary band is reached regardless 
of performance **h {promotion is too often based on longevity and 
time in salary grade instead of merit.} If no specific organization 
plan exists limiting the number of scientists at each salary level, 
the result is a department top-heavy with high-level, high-salaried personnel". 
_STAFF ENGINEER @ DEPT MANAGER_ "We have two approaches 
for the technical man: the position of staff engineer, which 
is rated as high in salary as department manager; and an administrative 
organization to take the routine load away from department managers 
and project engineers as much as possible, thus allowing them more time 
for strictly technical work. These are only halfway measures, and 
the answer will come when some way is found to allow the technical man 
in industry **h to progress without limit in salary and prestige". 
_A COMPLETE PLAN_ "We have made limited application of the 'parallel 
ladder' plan. The highest rated non-supervisory engineering 
title is 'research engineer'. The salary schedule permits remuneration 
greater than the average paid to the first level of engineering 
supervision (engineering section head). We also have an 'engineering 
section head- research engineer' classification which has salary 
possibilities equivalent to that of a research engineer. Above this 
point there is no generally used parallel ladder.   "We also 
do a number of things to build up the prestige of the engineer as a 
'professional' 
and also to give public recognition to individual technical 
competence. {These include encouragement of, and assistance 
to, the engineer in preparation and publication of technical papers. 
We have two media for publicizing individual technical activity, a magazine 
widely distributed both within and without the company, and an 
information bulletin for engineering personnel distributed to the homes 
of all engineers.} Publicity is given to the award of patents to 
our egnineers and financial support is provided for individual membership 
in technical societies.   "A recent, and more pertinent action, 
has been the establishment of a technical staff reporting to the 
vice-president for Engineering. This function is staffed by engineers 
chosen for their technical competence and who have the title, member 
of the technical staff'. Salaries compare favorably with those paid 
to the first two or three levels of management. Additional symbols 
of status are granted, such as reserved parking, distinctive badge passes 
authorizing special privileges, and a difference in the treatment 
of financial progress through merit.   "We presently are involved 
in inaugurating a new development center. Operations of this nature 
offer the best opportunity to recognize scientific status. All scientific 
staff members will have the title, 'research-staff member'. 
The salary level of an individual within the group will reflect the 
scientific community's acceptance of him as an authority in his scientific 
field. Contrary to usual organization-position evaluations, 
the position to which research-staff members report administratively will 
not necessarily encompass the duties of the research-staff member, 
therefore, are not necessarily evaluated as highly.   "These 
recent steps do not offer the possibility of extension to the great number 
of senior engineers who have displayed technical competence. It 
is doubtful that the complete solution to the over-all problem can result 
entirely from company efforts. Fundamental to the difficulty of creating 
the desired prestige is the fact that, in the business community, 
prestige and status are conferred in proportion to the authority that 
one man has over others and the extent of which he participates in 
the management functions".

SIXTY MILES NORTH of New York City where the wooded hills 
of Dutchess County meet the broad sweep of the Hudson River there 
is a new home development called "Oakwood Heights". As a matter 
of fact you could probably find a new home development in every populated 
county in the country with three-bedroom ranch style cottages 
in the $14,000 range. But Oakwood Heights is unique in one particular 
**h its oil for heating is metered monthly to each home from a line 
that starts at a central storage point.   This is a pilot operation 
sponsored by a new entity chartered in Delaware as the Tri-State 
Pipeline Corporation, with principal offices in New York State. 
Its president is Otis M& Waters, partner in the law firm of Timen 
+ Waters, 5404 Chrysler Bldg&, New York City. Vice-president 
is Louis Berkman and the secretary-treasurer is Mark Ritter. 
Ritter is the builder of Oakwood Heights and president of Kahler-Craft 
Distributors, Inc&, Newburgh, N&Y&.   The idea 
of a central tank with lines to each house is not in itself a novelty. 
Not a year goes by but what several local companies in the U& S& 
and Canada, even overseas, write to FUELOIL + OIL HEAT to inquire 
if it's feasible and where it is being done. Its editors only 
knew of one example to point to, a public housing development of 278 
homes in New Haven described by John Schulz in the March, 1950 issue. 
This has survived the years but there has been considerable concern 
among the tenants over the fact that the oil was not metered. Rather 
the monthly total consumption was divided and charged on the basis 
of number of rooms and persons in the family.   Common complaints 
included "Mrs& Murphy" leaving her windows open all the time, 
a fresh air fan, or the family was visiting "Aunt Minnie" with 
the house shut up but they still paid the same rate for oil. As a 
result of that attitude, others have been discouraged from trying central 
distribution.   A new low capacity meter is the key that unlocks 
the situation at Oakwood Heights. Called a "Slo-Flo" meter 
it was designed for this job by Power Plus Industries of Los Angeles, 
a key individual being Don Nelson. Tri-State has acquired 
its exclusive distribution for the northern, principal heating states.

There's an advantage in having a firm like Tri-State headed 
by a lawyer. The earlier New Haven development was public housing, 
so it easily leaped over the problems met in a private venture. These 
have to do with property rights, municipal official attitudes and 
a host of others. In working out the practical legal conclusions President 
Waters was not thinking only of this pilot project, for it is 
planned to duplicate this program or system in other builder developments 
nationally.   It is always difficult, or at least time-consuming, 
to get approval of any kind of line under a public street, as one 
example. To overcome this, the builder lays and completes the street 
himself, then deeds it to the community while retaining a perpetual 
easement for the oil lines. When a family buys a home the title is subject 
to a perpetual easement to Tri-State. For the central storage, 
Tri-State buys one acre, Buries its tanks and simply holds permanent 
title to that piece. In other words, the whole storage and pipeline 
system does not belong to the homeowners nor to the town but rather 
to Tri-State.   How does Tri-State get its revenue from this 
plan? It leases the whole facility to a large oil company, at least 
large enough to have a strong credit position. This first test is 
being leased for ten years but future projects will require at least 
15 years. The amount paid by the oil company to Tri-State for the use 
of its oil distribution system and the privilege of supplying all 
the homes, is subject to negotiation but naturally must be profitable 
to both parties.   On this first venture the central storage is 
20,000 gallons, in two tanks, or an average of 400 gallons for each of 
the 50 homes. The supplier delivers at his convenience in transport 
loads, so as to maintain two-to-three weeks reserve supply against weather 
contingencies. However, that is not all he has to do. He must 
undertake complete servicing of the oilheating equipment to assure fine 
heating. In the present project the heating is by circulating hot water 
form Paragon boiler-burner units with summer-winter domestic hot 
water hookups. Again, the oil man must read the meters at such intervals 
as he finds best.   For this first development the supplier 
signing the lease is a major oil company but in turn the deal is being 
transferred for operation to its local fueloil distributor. The major 
gets the assured gallonage for the life of the lease and the distributor 
apparently can do well because delivery cost is low. 

#INITIAL 
CONSIDERATIONS#

The officers of the new corporation have naturally 
explored many angles, as well as personalities that might be affected. 
For example, the officials of Poughkeepsie town (township) where the 
project is located think highly of it because it simplifies their snow 
clearing problem. The central storage is near a main artery quite 
easy to reach with large transports on a short crescent swing, with fewer 
trucks in the residential streets.   The Public Service Commission 
has ruled that this is not a public utility, subject to 
their 
many regulations.   Several financial institutions, both banks 
and insurance companies, have been sounded out. They like it and would 
supply most of the capital because of the long term leases by strong 
oil companies.   The Government housing agencies consider it 
feasible with one special stipulation. There must be a restriction in 
the deed to provide that the customer may not be charged more than the 
current market price for the oil **h an obvious precaution, since the 
account is permanently wedded, just like with gas or electricity.

For a few details of the system **h the lines are 1-1/4'' 
<X-Tru-Coat,> a product of Republic Steel Corp&, and all lines 
are welded. They are laid a minimum of 24'' deep and in some 
areas four feet down, particularly under roads, to stay clear of all 
other piping such as water and sewers and to minimize shocks from heavy 
trucking. The meter is mounted high on the basement wall. Its figures 
are a half inch high and very easy to read, even into tenth gallons. 
It will accommodate firing rates as low as a half gallon an hour.

Ritter, the builder, is convinced that the total cost of all the 
heating systems plus the oil distribution system is no greater than 
would be gas heating systems in the houses plus their lines and meters. 
He believes that this is a sound approach to gas competition in builder 
developments where gas is available.   It would be pretty 
difficult to install a Tri-State system in old neighborhoods, and that's 
an understatement. The job of getting property easements and street 
easements and the acre for the tanks would become pretty discouraging. 
But in a new development where everything starts from scratch 
the solutions are simple. 

#FUTURE PLANS#

What does Tri-State actually 
want to do, now that it has the meters under franchise and certain 
phases of its piping system in the "patent applied for" stage? 
It wants to interest builders and oil companies in the idea of including 
its facility in their new home projects, by financing and installing 
the storage, piping and meters, and leasing these for 15 years, 
with renewal options, to a strong oil company. It may also work in one 
other way- by licensing its system patents and supplying the meters, 
letting the oil company or even the builder install the facilities.

This whole development is certain to be of interest to the readers, 
for the idea has so often been mentioned, somewhat wistfully. 
But it's too early yet to go visit Oakwood Heights. Only eight of 
the 50 houses were completed at the time of the editor's visit on 
June 8th; others were building. The big tanks were at the site but 
still sunning themselves. A big mechanical ditcher was running the trenches, 
and the town building inspector was paying a friendly, if curious, 
visit.   The oilheating industry is looking up, led by a revival 
of research and development. A primary ingredient in these fields 
is imagination, and Tri-State Pipeline Corporation deserves a 
very good mark.

EVERY YEAR about this time National Gargle Your Cooling 
System week rolls around. It pays in the long (hot) run to take good 
care of the water works. Do it this way for the summer gargle:

@ First, drain that old coolant down the storm sewer. Don't 
save the anti-freeze, even if it the expensive "permanent" type. 
The word means it won't boil away easily, nothing else. The rust 
inhibitors in the fluid are used up after one year, and you don't want 
to risk the rust that two years' use could mean. Pitch it out.

@ If a lot of rust shows in the drain, use a good flushing cleaner.

@ Then fill the system and add a rust inhibitor. Of 
course, you'll want to use the softest water you can in your radiators.

@ Now, check for leaks in your hoses and hose connections, 
around the freeze-out plugs, gaskets, water pump seals and heater 
fittings.   @ Next, run the engine and let it heat up so the thermostat 
opens, and then look for leaks again. Be sure the bugs and 
dirt are blown out of the radiator fins. Use the air hose for this job. 
Check the temperature gage and be sure it is working.   If you 
use one of the new year-round cooling system fluids such as "Dowguard" 
be sure to check it. Dow says that the fluid can be used now 
for two years. Check its inhibitor effectiveness before leaving it in 
during the summer.   Take precautions now, to be sure you avoid 
those unpleasant and costly heat breakdowns when the temperature zooms 
this summer.   {Don't let your mechanics} pull the thermostats 
out of those fueloil delivery trucks or installation rigs of yours. 
Spring and summer may be here officially, but those thermos stay 
in.   The fact is that removing and leaving out a thermostat from 
any water cooled vehicle, will greatly increase the fuel consumption, 
reduce power and contribute to spark plug fouling due to an accumulation 
of excessive carbon deposits on the insulators.   If you 
run into excess plug fouling on one truck, check to be sure that the rig 
has a thermostat. The thermostat is important to get your engine up 
to operating temperature quickly, and to keep it running at its most 
efficient temperature through the proper circulation of the coolant.

{Are you paying too much} for your truck insurance? There's 
a good chance you are doubling on some coverage, not taking discounts 
coming to you and not cutting some corners that can be cut.

Have a talk with your insurance agent. Be careful that you keep 
adequate coverage, but look for places to save money. First go over the 
type of coverage you now have. Look for these features which may mean 
you can save:   @ Duplicate coverage. Avoid doubling up 
on the same item. For example, don't pay in a truck policy for medical 
coverage that you may be paying for in a health and accident policy.

@ Does your policy have a lay-up clause? This means that 
if your insured vehicle is laid up for more than 30 days, insurance 
can be suspended and a proportionate return of your premium made to 
you. This applies to repair work or winter storage.   The figure 
five is important in insurance. With many company policies you get 
a fleet discount if you insure five or more rigs. This means either cars 
or trucks. Discounts run up to 2% of cost.   Usually premium 
reductions can be obtained by applying deductibles to your liability 
plan. For example: If your bodily injury claims start payment after 
the first $250, a 25% premium saving is often made. 
{I}n the period since the end of World War /2,- a period 
coinciding 
with merchandising demands for the colorful, the unusual, and the original 
in signs and displays- plastics have come on so strong that 
today 
they are the acknowledged leaders in the field. The importance of the 
sign industry to the plastics industry, however, is not in terms of 
volume alone. Designers of signs and displays have shown a refreshing 
approach to the adaptation of plastics that has influenced the workings 
of other industries. Many of today's developments in thermoforming 
stem from original work done with signs and displays; the art of 
preprinting in distortion was similarly perfected by the sign makers; 
and the reverse-surface decorating techniques now used for escutcheons, 
medallions, etc&, owes much to the field, as does the technology 
of designing with the light-transmitting properties of the transparent 
plastics.   There is much that many industries can continue to 
learn from some of the more recent developments described below. The 
concept of trans-illumination (as shown by the photo on p& 92), as just 
one example, offers an entirely new approach to lighting problems- 
no matter what industry is involved. 

#A VOLUME MARKET#

According 
to a recent <Wall Street Journal> survey, plastics units now 
account for more than 50% of all sign sales. Five years ago, they had 
only 10% of the market, with the remainder firmly entrenched in the 
stronghold of neon tubing. And it's far from the end for plastics. 
Industry sources are now estimating that 75% of the signs made during 
the 1960's will be of plastic construction. Evidence of this 
trend can best be seen in the recent activities of such leading companies 
in the field as Advance Neon Sign Co&, Los Angeles, Calif&. 
Four years ago, the company's entire line was devoted to neon 
signs; today, 85% is in plastics.   From the volume standpoint, 
the total market represented by the sign industry is impressive. Aggregate 
sales during 1960 reached approximately $500 million. Currently, 
there are some 6000 companies in the field, ranging from small firms 
with a handful of employees to major concerns having complete facilities 
for production of metal, electrical, and plastic components. 

#WHY 
THE TREND TO PLASTICS?#

What accounts for the rapid growth 
of plastics in the sign and display field? Out of many factors which 
might be cited, five are most important: _1._ Plastics combine 
such properties as built-in color, light weight, optional transparency 
or translucency, resistance to corrosion, as well as the ease of fabrication. 
_2._ Plastic signs are economical. According to one 
major producer, materials for a typical plastic sign are approximately 
25% less costly than for a comparable neon unit. Shipping cost is 
also reduced; a 3-by- 6-ft& plastic sign weighs about 120 lb&, 
compared to 275-300 lb& for neon. The weight advantage, plus greater 
durability of the plastic unit, yields a saving of about one-fifth 
in shipping. The lighter weight also means less costly supports and mountings 
are needed. Finally, maintenance costs on plastic signs are 
much lower than on fragile neon signs. _3._ They offer exceptional 
design freedom, making it 
possible to incorporate contours and details 
which give free range to the talents of the designer. Vacuum- and pressure-formed 
sheet plastics fill the gap between cardboard and molded 
plastics. Pre-decoration, 
low-cost molds, and the freedom to form large 
and small, thick and thin materials make plastics tailor-made for the 
industry. _4._ Plastics signs work around the clock. Internal 
illumination, protected from the elements, gives them powerful visual 
appeal at night; during daylight hours their brilliant colors command 
attention and interest. _5._ Advances in equipment and fabrication 
techniques give the sign or display manufacturer an extremely wide 
choice of production techniques, ranging from injection molding for 
intricate, smaller-size, mass-production signs (generally 5000 units is 
the minimum) to vacuum and pressure forming for larger signs of limited 
runs. Among the newest fabrication methods to enter the display field 
are expandable styrene molding and blow molding. _WHAT PLASTICS 
TO USE?_ For outdoor signs and displays, acrylic, with its outstanding 
optical characteristics, weather resistance and formability, strongly 
dominates the picture. At present, both the familiar cast acrylic 
and the newer extruded sheets are being used by sign manufacturers, 
with extruded now representing an estimated 10% of the total. (See 
panel, p& 166, for a comparison.)   Of interest is a recent 
announcement by Du Pont's 
Polychemicals Dept& of a new methyl methacrylate 
monomer designated as Monocite ~H 100, which was developed 
specifically for production of cast acrylic sheets for the sign and 
lighting industry. Sheeting cast from this material reportedly weighs 
only one-third as much as glass, is impervious to all kinds of weather, 
and will not yellow. Its high impact strength, even at low temperatures, 
resists chipping, cracking, and crazing, according to Du Pont.

Cellulose acetate butyrate is used extensively for vacuum-formed 
signs, background panels, and molded or formed letters because of its 
exceptional toughness, ease of forming, and excellent weathering properties. 
Its clarity and good optical properties are other important 
factors. New to the field is a duplex type butyrate laminate in which 
the two sheets of the laminate are of different color. Thermoforming 
the laminate and then sanding away the top layer is a quick and economical 
way to produce a two-color sign. (see ~MPl, Mar& 1961, 
p& 
98).   For specialized types of displays, such as large three-dimensional 
units reproducing a product, package, human or animal figures, 
etc&, reinforced plastics and rotationally molded vinyl plastisols 
are other materials frequently used.   A relative newcomer 
in 
outdoor signs is Mylar polyester film, now used as a printed overlay 
for trans-illuminated signs (see below).   For outdoor signs and 
displays, where the problem of weathering resistance is no longer a 
factor, the choice of plastics is almost unlimited. Here may be found 
regular and impact styrene, cellulose acetate, cellulose butyrate and 
cellulose propionate, acrylic, vinyl, expandable styrene foam, and polyethylene. 
The final choice of material depends upon such factors as 
costs, method of fabrication, degree of complexity, number of units 
required, time available for tooling, and projected life expectancy of 
the unit. Often, the finished sign or display incorporates several types 
of plastics and two or more fabricating techniques. 

#TRANS-ILLUMINATED 
BILLBOARDS#

One of the most significant advancements in design 
of plastics signs is the so-called trans-illuminated billboard, now 
being produced by several large sign manufacturers such as Advance 
Neon Sign Co&, Los Angeles, and Industrial Electric Inc&, 
New Orleans, La&.   The essential difference between the new 
trans-illuminated boards and existing billboards is that the former, 
constructed of translucent plastic panels, are lighted from within. 
With the source of light behind the copy, there is no loss of lumen output, 
as with conventional boards illuminated by means of reflected light. 
Also, the light sources are shielded from dirt and weather exposure 
and cannot obstruct the view of the sign.   The copy itself, 
including any text or illustrations, is reproduced in full color directly 
on a thin Mylar polyester film by a photo screen process. The 
film has an adhesive on the back which permits it to be stripped onto 
the acrylic panels forming the sign, and also to be stripped off for 
replacement by new copy as required. Spare sets of face panels simplify 
the change from one copy or message to another; new panels are exchanged 
for the old right in the field on a single trip. Panels with 
outdated copy are returned to the sign shop so a new message can be applied.

Signs of this type have already made their appearance 
in several larger cities, and others are on the way. It is believed that 
these boards will, within the next few years, replace many of the 
conventional flood-lighted boards now in use.   Trans-illuminated 
signs also show versatility in other directions. As used by Industrial 
Electric Inc&, the film panels are printed one at a time, as 
are 24-sheet posters. Thus the film can be applied to back-lighted translucent 
plastics faces; they can also be applied to opaque panels 
for use on cutouts, or they can be applied directly to painted bulletin 
faces. In this way, the sign maker has an economical means for displaying 
uniform copy on different sign media.   Recently Industrial 
Electric unveiled another new development made possible by modern 
plastic materials- a revolving spectacular sign. Comprised of 16 
triangular trans-illuminated plastic sections, it makes it possible to 
combine three different signs in a single unit. The triangles automatically 
revolve in a cycle which permits 9 sec& of viewing time for 
each poster subject. Sixteen panels, each slightly more than 1-1/2 ft& 
wide, make up the 25-ft& length of the sign. 

#CHANGEABLE LETTERS 
FILL MANY NEEDS#

Perhaps the best way to indicate the versatility 
of design that characterizes the use of plastics in signs and displays 
would be to look at what is happening in only one of the areas in this 
complex field- changeable signs.   Signs are meant to convey 
a message, and in most cases, this requires words and letters. Frequently, 
the message must be changed at intervals to feature new products, 
price changes, etc&. The huge market for changeable signs has spurred 
a universal demand for individual plastic letters, in all shapes 
and sizes- and a number of companies are set up to supply them. Here 
are some of the newer items currently available:   Poster Products 
Inc&, Chicago, Ill&: a changeable copy and display 
sign 
which consists of an extruded impact styrene background in choice of 
colors, onto which are mounted snap-in letters, figures, or words screened 
on acetate or other types of sheet stock. The background, which 
is available 
in various widths and continuous lengths, is extruded with 
parallel undercut grooves which grip the flexible letters securely.

The Adaptaplex Co&, Beaverton, Ore&; letters molded 
of butyrate, available in several sizes in either red or black. Ideal 
for merchandising use, they are weather-resistant, and have mounting 
pegs on the back which fit into openings in a vacuum-formed waffle-pattern 
background panel.   For large letters, <e&g&> thermoformed 
of acrylic or butyrate, there are other techniques. For example, 
in a typical store installation, fifty 24-in& and six 36-in& red 
acrylic letters were mounted against a white painted wood background. 
The fact that even the larger letters weighed only 5 lb& each made 
it possible to secure the letters to the building through clear acrylic 
angle brackets cemented to the letters. Stainless steel screws were 
used to minimize corrosion stains. For mounting to corrugated plastic 
backgrounds, very small holes may be drilled in the sides of the letters 
and stainless steel wire threaded through the openings, its ends 
twisted behind the panels.   Large injection-molded letters are 
also available for sign installations. Wagner Sign Service Inc&, 
Chicago, for example, supplies them in several colors, in heights of 
4, 6, 8, 10, and 17 inches. They are molded of a special weather-resistant 
formulation of Tenite butyrate. Also available from this company 
are Snug-Grip Plasti-Bars, extruded of transparent acrylic material, 
which may be cemented to any corrugated acrylic background material. 
Made in lengths from 3 to 10 ft&, the bars are shaped in cross 
section to provide a secure fit for the tapered slots molded in back 
of the letters.   Still another approach to the changeable letter 
type of sign is a modular unit introduced by Merritt Products, Azusa, 
Calif&. This vacuum formed sign is comprised of 27-in& (or 
smaller) panels formed of 0.080-in& clear butyrate sheet stock, masked 
and sprayed on the rear side. Finished signs are produced by sliding 
the separate letter panels into channels of 0.025-in& aluminum, 
which may be mounted to various surfaces. The sheets are extruded of 
Tenite butyrate by Jet Specialties Co&, Los Angeles, Calif&.

On large-area units, where additional structural requirements 
are imposed, one recent approach utilizes modular extruded or formed 
channels (<e&g&> right-angled corrugations) of the acrylic or butyrate. 
Joined side by side, such channels make possible construction 
of continuous two-dimensional luminous areas up to 50 ft& high and 
of unlimited width. Letters may be wired to the face of the combined 
channels, painted on the first surface, or handled in other ways. 

#NEW RULE NO& 2: DON'T BUILD FROM THE OUTSIDE IN- TRY TO BUILD 
FROM 
THE INSIDE OUT#

Don't insert your components into fixed openings, 
they may or may not fit; position your components before you close 
them in. For example:   Don't wall in your kitchen before 
you hang the wall cabinets and set the appliances. It's a lot quicker 
and easier to dimension the kitchen to fit the cabinets and erect 
the end wall after they are all in place.   Set your bathtub before 
you close in the end of the bathroom. Don't try to wrestle a 
400-~lb tub **f through a narrow doorway.   Finish your plumbing 
before you frame it in (most economical framing is a thin non-bearing 
partition on either side of the pipes).   Finish installing and 
connecting up your furnace and your water heater before you wall them 
in. There is no better way to waste time than trying to install a 
furnace in a finished **f closet.   Don't position your studs 
before you insert your windows in conventional construction; that way 
you may pay more to shim the window into place than you paid for the 
window. You can save all that shimming time if you set your windows 
in one, two, three order- first the stud on one side, then the window, 
then the stud on the other side.   Install your disappearing 
stair (or stairs) to the attic and finish your overhead ducts before 
you drywall the ceiling.   Don't close in your house until everything 
has been carried in. Last wall Bob Schmitt erects is the wall 
between the house and garage. That way he can truck his parts right 
indoors and unload them under the roof.   No auto maker would 
dream of putting the head on the engine before he fitted the pistons 
in the block. And trailer makers, those most industrialized and therefore 
most efficient of homebuilders, say they save hundreds of dollars 
by always building from the inside out. 

#NEW RULE NO& 3 RETHINK 
EVERYTHING 
TO GET ALL THE BIG SAVINGS THE REVOLUTION IN MATERIALS HANDLING 
OFFERS YOU#

This revolution is the biggest build-better-for-less 
news of all, because **h _1._ It makes it easy to handle much heavier 
units, so you can plan to build with much bigger and heavier prefabricated 
components like those shown in the pictures alongside. _2._ 
It makes materials handling the only construction cost that (like 
earthmoving and roadbuilding) should be lower today than in 1929. _3._ 
It changes the answers to "Who should do what, and where"? 
It lessens the need for costly on-site fabrication and increases 
the chance for shop fabrication, where almost everything can be made 
better and cheaper. _4._ It changes the answers on when to do what 
at the site. For example, instead of putting in your driveways last 
(as many builders do) you can now save money by putting them in first. 
Instead of closing the house in first (as most builders do) you can 
now cut your costs by not closing it in until you have to (<see 
~p 
121>). _5._ It changes the answers on builder-dealer relations. 
Not so long ago many builders were finding they could cut their costs 
by "buying direct" and short-cutting the dealer. But now many of 
these same builders are finding they can cut their costs more by teaming 
up with a dealer who has volume enough to afford the most efficient 
specialized equipment 
to deliver everything just where it is needed- 
drywall inside the house, siding along the sides, trusses on the walls, 
roofing on the roof, etc&.   Says Clarence Thompson: "We 
dealers must earn our mark-up by performing a service for the builder 
cheaper than he could do it himself". The revolution now under 
way in materials handling makes this much easier. _THE REVOLUTION 
IS WELL UNDER WAY, BUT MUCH MORE REMAINS TO BE DONE_ Five years ago 
a HOUSE + HOME Round Table cosponsored by the Lumber Dealers' 
Research Council reported unhappily:   "Only one lumber 
dealer in ten is equipped to handle unit loads; only one box car 
in eight has the wide doors needed for unit loads; only one producer 
in a hundred is equipped to package and ship unit loads; only one builder 
in a thousand is equipped to receive unit loads.   "So 
from raw materials to finished erection the costs of materials handling 
(most of it inefficient) add up to one-fourth of the total construction 
cost of housing".   "That HOUSE + HOME Round Table 
was the real starting point for today's revolution in materials 
handling", says Clarence Thompson, long chairman of the Lumber Dealers' 
Research Council. "It made our whole industry recognize 
the need for a new kind of teamwork between manufacturer, carrier, equipment 
maker, dealer, and builder, all working together to cut the cost 
of materials handling. Before that we lumber dealers were working 
almost single-handed on the problem". _HERE IS WHERE THINGS STAND 
TODAY:_ _1._ Almost all of the 3,000 lumber dealers who cater 
primarily to the new-house market and supply 90% of this year's new 
houses are mechanized. There are few areas left where a builder cannot 
find a dealer equipped to save him money by delivering everything 
at lower cost just where his workmen will need it. _2._ Practically 
all bulky housing products can now be ordered in standard units palletized 
or unitized for mechanical handling- including lumber, asphalt 
shingles, glass block, face brick, plaster, lime, hardboard, gypsum 
wallboard and sheathing, cement, insulation sheathing, floor tile, acoustical 
tile, plaster base, and asbestos shingles. _3._ Truck and 
materials-handling equipment makers now offer specialized units to 
meet almost every homebuilding need. For some significant new items 
see the pictures. _4._ More than 50% of all lumber is unitized; 
an ~NLRDA survey found that at least 492 lumber mills will 
strap their shipments for mechanized handling. Of these, 376 said they 
make no extra charge for strapping in standard units, because they 
save enough on mechanized carloading to offset their strapping cost. 
Most of the others 
will swallow their 50@ to $3 charge rather than lose 
a good customer. "With a 15,500-~lb fork-lift, dealers can unload 
unitized lumber from wide-door box cars for 30@/~mbf compared 
with $1.65 or more to unload loose lumber one piece at a time", says 
James Wright of ~NLRDA. _5._ Lumber dealers and lumber 
manufacturers have agreed on a standard unit for unitized shipments- 
48'' wide by a nominal 30'' high (or six McCracken packets 
24'' wide by nominal 7'' high). These units make it easy to 
load as much as 48,000 ~bd ~ft (say 120,000 ~lb in a 50' box 
car- much more than the average for loose-loaded cars. _6._ The 
railroads have responded by adding 20,000 more box cars with doors 12' 
or wider for forklift unloading (a 21% increase while the total 
number of box cars was falling 6%) and by cutting their freight rates 
twice on lumber shipped in heavily loaded cars. First was a 1958 cut 
of more than 50% on that portion of the load in excess of 40,000 
~lb; later came a 1961 cut on the West Coast (still pending elsewhere) 
of 7@/~cwt on 70,000 ~lb-plus carloads (which works out to 
more than $4/~mbf on that portion of the load in excess of 70,000 
~lb). _7._ More unitized lumber is being shipped on flat cars, 
and ~NLRDA studies show that flat cars loaded with the new Type 
6-~B floating-load method can be unloaded for at little at 5.4@/~mbf. 
For long hauls these shipments should be protected with water-proof 
paper. This costs from 75@ to $2.30/~mbf, but the cover can 
pay off if the lumber is to be stored in the open. _THESE CARRIERS 
CUT HANDLING COSTS FOR THE DEALER- AND THE BUILDER_ Says ~NRLDA's 
James Wright: "Since 1958 carriers that move material 
from the yard to the job site have undergone more radical changes 
than any of the dealer's other equipment".   The reason: today's 
components and lumber packages are far too bulky to be handled 
by a truckdriver and a helper. So manufacturers have pioneered a new 
type of vehicle- the self-unloading carrier. It cuts the lumber dealer's 
cost because it takes only one man- the driver- to unload 
it, and because it unloads in a fraction of the time and at a fraction 
of the cost of hand unloading. and it helps the builder because it 
can handle a more efficiently packaged load, can deliver it to the best 
spot (in some cases, right on the roof or inside the house), and never 
takes any of the builder's high-priced labor to help unload it.

Says Wright: "Our survey shows that one third of the 
retail 
dealers plan to increase the mechanization of their materials handling 
in the coming two years. And most of the gain will be in self-unloading 
vehicles". 

#NEW RULE NO& 4: RESTUDY WHAT YOUR MEN DO, 
TO HELP THEM WASTE LESS OF THE TIME YOU PAY FOR#

Half the manhours 
you pay for on most jobs are wasted because the job was not planned right, 
so the right tools were not handy at the right place at the right 
time, or the right materials were not delivered to the handiest spots 
or materials were not stacked in the right order for erection, or you 
bought cheap materials that took too long to fit, or your workmen had 
to come back twice to finish a job they could have done on one trip.

Even "America's most efficient builder", Bob Schmitt 
of Berea, hopes to cut his labor costs another $2,000 per house as a 
result of the time-+-motion studies now being completed on his operation 
by industrial efficiency engineers from the Stanley Works. Already 
this study has suggested ways to cut his foundation manhours from 
170 to 105 by eliminating idle time and wasted motion.   Builder 
Eddie Carr of Washington, past president of ~NAHB, cut his bricklaying 
costs $150 a house by adopting the "~SCR masonry process" 
worked out after careful time-+-motion studies by the Structural 
Clay Products Research Foundation to help bricklayers do better 
work for less. A midwestern builder cut his labor costs per thousand 
bricks from $81 to $43.50 by adopting this same process, cut them another 
$7.50 to $36 by buying his bricks in convenient, easy-to-spot 100-brick 
packages. The ~SCR process, with its precision corner-posts, 
its precision guide lines, its working level scaffold, and its hand-level 
brick supply takes eight manhours to get set, but once ready 
it makes it easy for bricklayers to lay a thousand bricks a day. See 
<page 156>.   One good way to cut your labor waste is to make 
sure you are using just the right number of men in each crew. Reports 
Jim Lendrum: "By studying men on the job, we found that two men- 
a carpenter and a helper- can lay a floor faster than three. We 
found that three men- two carpenters and a helper- can put up wall 
panels or trusses more economically than four men- because four men 
don't make two teams; they make one inefficient three-men-and-a-helper 
team. We found that wherever you can use two teams on a job, 
five men, not four, is the magic number".   No house was ever 
built that could not have been built better for less if the work had 
been better planned and the work better scheduled. 

#NEW RULE NO& 
5: DON'T WASTE ANY 10@-A-MINUTE TIME ON GREEN LUMBER TO SAVE 3@ 
A STUD#

This is the most penny-wise, pound-foolish chisel a builder 
can commit.   Green lumber was all very well back in the days 
of wet plaster, when the framing lumber was bound to swell and then 
shrink as tons of water dried out the gypsum. But now that all production 
builders build with drywall and all smart builders build with panels, 
green lumber is an anachronism you cannot afford.   Green 
studs cost about 65@; dry studs cost less than 3@ more. So if 
a green stud makes a carpenter or a drywall finisher or anybody else waste 
even 20 seconds, the green stud becomes more expensive than a dry 
stud.

There comes a time in the lives of most of us when we want to 
be alone. Not necessarily to be off all by ourselves, but away from the 
crowds and common happenstance. If you've travelled in Europe a 
time or two, it is quite certain that you've had that wanting-to-be-alone 
feeling or that you will get it on your next visit across the Atlantic. 
Following a guide, and gratefully so, is an excellent way to 
see all the important places when everything is strange and new. However, 
after you've seen all the historical piazzas and plazas, the 
places and forums, the churches and museums, the palaces and castles, 
and begin to feel at home in the capitals of Europe, you'll want to 
change your course and follow the by-roads at will, far from the market 
places.   The champagne at Troyes, the traditional capital 
of the champagne country, has more ambrosial taste somehow than it has 
at a sidewalk cafe on the Rue de la Paix or at Tour d'Argent. You 
can relive history and follow, in fancy, the Crusaders in their quest 
for the Holy Grail as they sail out from Brindisi, an ancient 
town in the heel of Italy's boot. And you don't meet the folks from 
home in Northwest Spain which has remained almost untouched by time 
and tourists since the Middle Ages. Time stands still as you climb 
the narrow, stone stairways in tiny villages clinging to steep mountain 
slopes or wander through story-book towns, perched atop lofty crags, 
their faces turned to the sea. They've been there since the days 
of the Moors and the Saracens. And what better way to end a day 
than by dining with artists and gourmets in a squat but charming fisherman's 
village on the Mediterranean?   An almost too-simple-to-be-true 
way to set forth on such adventures is just to put yourself 
behind the wheel of a car and head for the open road.   For those 
who need or want and can afford another car, buying one and driving 
it on the grand tour, then shipping it home, is one popular plan for 
a do-it-yourself pilgrimage. Then, of course, there are those of us 
who either do not want or need or cannot afford another car. The answer 
to this diathesis is to pick up a telephone and arrange to rent one. 
It is that elemental.   Almost any travel agent will reserve 
a car for you. You can call one of the car rental services directly 
(Hertz, Avis, Auto-Europe Nationalcar Rental, and others) and ask 
them to reserve a car of your choice, and some transportation lines 
offer this service as well. With few exceptions, your car will be waiting 
for you at dockside, airport, railroad station or hotel when you 
arrive, oftentimes at no additional cost. You can wait, of course, until 
you arrive in Europe before renting your car. The disadvantages 
to this method are that you may not have as great a choice of models 
readily available or you may have to wait a few days or, during the busy 
tourist season, when cars are in great demand, you might find it fairly 
difficult to get a car at all. Since charges are relatively the 
same, reserving a car before you leave for Europe will assure you of 
having one on tap when you want it.   For those who plan to travel 
to Europe by one route and return by another some agencies offer 
a service whereby you can pick up a car in one city on arrival and leave 
it in another city, or even another country, when you are ready to 
return home. At some cities, this pick-up and delivery service is without 
additional charge, and, if you are budget-wise, when you are planning 
your itinerary, you will take advantage of these free delivery 
and collection stations in major cities within the larger European countries.

International Touring Documents are usually provided 
with the car as are road maps and touring data. A valid American 
driving license is accepted in all countries except Portugal, Spain, 
Yugoslavia and Eastern 
Europe. If you plan to visit any of these countries, 
you can obtain your International Driving Permit before you 
leave at a nominal fee- around $3.00. Your insurance, too, with 
most agencies, is provided with the car, covering comprehensive fire, 
theft, liability and collision with a deductible clause which varies 
in different countries. If you would feel happier with full collision 
insurance, there is a small additional charge, again varying from country 
to country and depending on the term of such insurance. The average 
charge for this additional insurance coverage is roughly $1.00 a day. 
The charge is variable, however, and goes as low as 50@ a day in 
Ireland and as high as $2.00 a day in Greece.   Rental fees 
are variable, too, throughout the countries of Europe. There are as 
many rates as there are countries and models of cars available. As in 
the United States, there is a flat fee-per-day rental charge plus 
a few cents per kilometer driven, and the per-day rate drops if the car 
is retained for a week. It drops again after fifteen and/or twenty-one 
days.   It is well to bear in mind that gasoline will cost from 
80@ to 90@ for the equivalent of a United States gallon and 
while you might prefer a familiar Ford, Chevrolet or even a Cadillac, 
which are available in some countries, it is probably wiser to choose 
the smaller European makes which average thirty, thirty-five and 
even forty miles to the gallon.   Your choice of model will undoubtedly 
be governed by the number of people travelling in your group. 
With the exception of the sports cars, even the quite tiny sedans will 
seat four passengers if you are willing to sacrifice comfort and luggage 
space for really economical transportation. There is a large variety 
of models to choose from in most countries, however, including 6-passenger 
sedans and station wagons and the rental fee isn't all that 
much greater than for the wee sedans.   The basic costs are generally 
pretty much the same regardless of the agency through which you 
reserve your car, but some of them offer supplementary advantages. 
There is the free intra-city "rent it here, leave it there" service, 
as an example, the free delivery and collection at the airport, dockside 
or your hotel, luggage racks, touring documents and information 
and other similar services. A little investigation by telephone or reading 
the travel ads in the newspapers and magazines will give you these 
pertinent details on the additional money-saving benefits. The investigation 
will be well worth your time.   All model cars are not 
available in all countries. Quite naturally, there is a greater availability 
of those models which are manufactured within a specific country. 
If you would like to start your tour in Italy, where the rental 
fees are actually the lowest in Europe, Fiats in all sizes are available, 
as are Alfa Romeo Giulietta models. If you wish to budget 
closely on transportation, saving your extra dollars to indulge in luxuries, 
one agency lists the small Fiat 500 at only $1.26 a day plus 3@ 
a kilometer and the Fiat 2100 Station 
Wagon, seating six, at just 
$1.10 a day and 10-1/2@ a kilometer. If you will be using your car 
more than fifteen days, which isn't all unlikely, the daily rates 
drop quite sharply to 86@ a day for the Fiat 500 and to an infinitesimal 
30@ a day for the Fiat 2100 Station Wagon. With six in the 
group, the cost comes to just a nickel a day per person on the daily 
fee.   In the majority of countries, however, the rates range from 
$3.00 to $3.50 a day for the smaller sedans and graduate up to $7.00 
and $8.00 a day for the larger, luxury European models, with the rate 
per kilometer driven starting at 3@ and going up as high as 12@. 
The same model car might be available in six or eight countries, yet 
not two countries will have the same rate either for the daily rate 
or rate per kilometer driven. The variations are not too great. Rates 
for American cars are somewhat higher, ranging from about $8.00 a day 
up to $14.00 a day for a Chevrolet Convertible, but the rate per 
kilometer driven is roughly the same as for the larger European models. 
Rates in Greece and Finland are fairly high, actually the highest 
in Europe, and, surprisingly enough, they are also quite high in Ireland.

If you are planning to tour Europe for longer than a 
month, it might be wise for you to lease a car. The actual over-all 
cost, for the first month, will perhaps not be too much lower than the 
rental charges for the same period of time, but you will receive a new 
car. You will be entitled to all the advantages of a new car owner, 
which includes the factory guarantee and the services valid at authorized 
dealers throughout Europe. Further, there is no mileage charge 
or mileage limitations when you lease a car, and you pay only the flat 
monthly rate plus a nominal charge for documents and insurance since 
the car is registered and insured individually for your trip. There is 
a fairly wide selection of models of English, German and French manufacture 
from which you can choose from the very small Austin 7, Citroe^n 
2 ~CV, Volkswagens, Renaults to the 6-passenger Simca 
Beaulieu. Leasing a car is not as common or as popular as renting a 
car in Europe, but for long periods it will be unquestionably more economical 
and satisfactory. After the first month, rates are considerably 
less, averaging only about $60 a month for most 4- and 5-passenger 
models.   There are reasons for some people not wanting to rent 
cars and going on the do-it-yourself plan. For one thing, the driver 
usually sees less and has less fun than his passengers since it becomes 
pretty necessary for him to keep at least one eye on the road. Then, 
too, European drivers have reputations for being somewhat crazy on 
the road and some Americans are not particularly keen on getting mixed 
up with them. Still there is a way for those who want to see some 
of the back country of Europe by car. The way is to rent a chauffeur-driven 
car. It isn't as expensive as most people believe it to be.

Your chauffeur's expenses will average between $7.00 to $12.00 
a day, but this charge is the same whether you rent a 7-passenger 
Cadillac limousine or a 4-passenger Peugeot or Fiat 1800. The big 
spread is in the charge for each kilometer driven, being governed by 
the rate at which gasoline is consumed. Since most European cars average 
more miles per gallon of gasoline than American cars, it naturally 
follows that the cost per kilometer for these models will be less, 
but the greater seating capacity of the large American cars will equalize 
this, provided your group is sufficiently large to fill a 7-passenger 
limousine.   The fees for the rental of chauffeur-driven cars 
vary in the different countries in the same manner as they do for 
the drive-yourself cars. However, whether you arrange to have a European 
or American model, if you rent a car with the proper seating capacity 
in relation to the number of people in your party, your transportation 
expense will average very close to $10.00 per day per passenger. 
This will include your helpful, English-speaking chauffeur and a 
drive of an average of 150 kilometers in any one day. If you drive greater 
distances than that, you'll just be skimming the surface and will 
never discover the enchantment, fascination and beauty which lured 
you in the first place to explore the hinterlands. Of course, if you 
want to throw all caution to the winds and rent an Imperial or Cadillac 
limousine just for you and your bride, you'll have a memorable 
tour, but it won't be cheap, and it is not recommended unless you own 
a producing oil well or you've had a winner in the Irish Sweepstakes.

In American romance, almost nothing rates higher than what the 
movie men have called "meeting cute"- that is, boy-meets-girl 
seems more adorable if it doesn't take place in an atmosphere of correct 
and acute boredom. Just about the most enthralling real-life example 
of meeting cute is the Charles MacArthur-Helen Hayes saga: 
reputedly all he did was give her a handful of peanuts, but he said 
simultaneously, "I wish they were emeralds". Aside from the comico-romantico 
content here, a good linguist-anthropologist could readily 
pick up a few other facts, especially if he had a little more of the 
conversation to go on.   The way MacArthur said his line- if 
you had the recorded transcript of a professional linguist- would 
probably have gone like this: **f Primary stresses on emeralds and 
wish; note pitch 3 (pretty high) on emeralds but with a slight degree 
of drawl, one degree of oversoftness **h. Conclusions: The people 
involved (and subsequent facts bear me out here) knew clearly the relative 
values of peanuts and emeralds, both monetary and sentimental. 
And the drawling, oversoft voice of flirtation, though fairly overt, 
was still well within the prescribed gambit of their culture.   In 
other words, like automation machines designed to work in tandem, they 
shared the same programming, a mutual understanding not only of English 
words, but of the four stresses, pitches, and junctures that can 
change their meaning from black to white. At this point, unfortunately, 
romance becomes a regrettably small part of the picture; but consider, 
if you can bear it, what might have happened if MacArthur, for 
some perverse, undaunted reason, had made the same remark to an Eskimo 
girl in Eskimo. To her peanuts and emeralds would have been just 
so much blubber. The point- quite simply- is this: words they 
might have had; but communication, no.   This basic principle, 
the first in a richly knotted bundle, was conveyed to me by Dr& Henry 
Lee Smith, Jr&, at the University of Buffalo, where he heads 
the world's first department of anthropology and linguistics. A 
brisk, amusing man, apparently constructed on an ingenious system of 
spring-joints attuned to the same peppery rhythm as his mind, Smith 
began his academic career teaching speech to Barnard girls- a project 
considerably enlivened by his devotion to a recording about "a young 
rat named Arthur, who never could make up his mind". Later, he 
became one of the central spirits of the Army Language Program and 
the language school of Washington's Foreign Service Institute. 
It was there, in the course of trying to prepare new men for the "culture 
shock" they might encounter in remote overseas posts, that he 
first began to develop a system of charting the "norms of human communication".

To the trained ear of the linguist, talk has always 
revealed a staggering quantity of information about the talker- 
such things as geographical origin and/or history, socio-economic identity, 
education. It is only fairly recently, however, that linguists 
have developed a systematic way of charting voices on paper in a way 
that tells even more about the speakers and about the success or failure 
of human communication between two people. This, for obvious reasons, 
makes their techniques superbly useful in studying the psychiatric 
interview, so useful, in fact, that they have been successfully used 
to suggest ways to speed diagnosis and to evaluate the progress of therapy.

In the early 1950's, Smith, together with his distinguished 
colleague, George Trager (so austerely academic he sometimes 
fights his own evident charm), and a third man with the engaging name 
of Birdwhistell (Ray), agreed on some basic premises about the three-part 
process that makes communication: (1) words or language (2) paralanguage, 
a set of phenomena including laughing, weeping, voice breaks, 
and "tone" of voice, and (3) kinesics, the technical name for 
gestures, facial expressions, and body shifts- nodding or shaking the 
head, "talking" with one's hands, et cetera.   Smith's 
first workout with stresses, pitches, and junctures was based on mother, 
which spells, in our culture, a good deal more than bread alone. 
For example, if you are a reasonably well-adjusted person, there are 
certain ways that are reasonable and appropriate for addressing your mother. 
The usual U&S& norm would be: **f Middle pitches, slight 
pause (juncture) before mother, slight rise at the end. The symbols 
of mother's status, here, are all usual for culture U&S&A&. 
Quite other feelings are evidenced by this style: **f Note the 
drop to pitch 1 (the lowest) on mother with no rise at the end of the 
sentence; this is a "fade" ending, and what you have here is a 
downtalking style of speech, expressing something less than conventional 
respect for mother. Even less regard for mom and mom's apple pie 
goes with: **f In other words, the way the speaker relates to mother 
is clearly indicated. And while the meaning of the words is not in 
this instance altered, the quality of communication in both the second 
and third examples is definitely impaired. An accompanying record 
of paralanguage factors for the second example might also note a 
throaty 
rasp. With this seven-word sentence- though the speaker undoubtedly 
thought he was dealing only with the subject of food- he was telling 
things about himself and, in the last two examples, revealing that 
he had departed from the customs of his culture.   The joint investigations 
of linguistics and psychiatry have established, in point 
of fact, that no matter what the subject of conversation is or what words 
are involved, it is impossible for people to talk at all without telling 
over and over again what sort of people they are and how they relate 
to the rest of the world. Since interviewing is the basic therapeutic 
and diagnostic instrument of modern psychiatry, the recording of 
interviews for playbacks and study has been a boost of Redstone proportions 
in new research and training. Some of the earliest recordings, 
made in the 1940's, demonstrated that psychiatrists reacted immediately 
to anger and anxiety in the sound track, whereas written records 
of the same interview offered far fewer cues to therapy which- if 
they were at all discernible in print- were picked up only by the most 
skilled and sensitive experts. In a general way, psychiatrists were 
able to establish on a wide basis what many of them had always felt- 
that the most telling cues in psychotherapy are acoustic, that such 
things as stress and nagging are transmitted by sound alone and not 
necessarily by words.   At a minimum, recording- usually on tape, 
which is now in wide professional use- brings the psychiatric interview 
alive so that the full range of emotion and meaning can be explored 
repeatedly by the therapist or by a battery of therapists. Newest 
to this high-powered battery are the experts in linguistics who have 
carried that minimum to a new level. By adding a systematic analysis 
with symbols to the typed transcripts of interviews, they have supplied 
a new set of techniques for the therapist. Linguistic charting of 
the transcribed interview flags points where the patient's voice departs 
from expected norms. It flags such possible breakdowns of communication 
as rehearsed dialogue, the note of disapproval, ambivalence 
or ambiguity, annoyance, resentment, and the disinclination to speak at 
all- this last often marked by a fade-in beginning of sentences.

Interpretation, naturally, remains the role of the therapist, but 
orientation- not only the patient's vocal giveaways of geographical 
and socio-economic background, but also vocal but non-verbal giveaways 
of danger spots in his relationship to people- can be considerably 
beefed up by the linguist. His esoteric chartings of the voice alert 
the therapist to areas where deeper probing may bring to light underlying 
psychological difficulties, making them apparent first to the 
therapist and eventually to the patient. In one now-historic first 
interview, 
for example, the transcript (reproduced from the book, <The 
First Five Minutes>) goes like this: **f The therapist's level 
tone is bland and neutral- he has, for example, avoided stressing 
"you", which would imply disapproval; or surprise, which would 
set the patient apart from other people. The patient, on the other 
hand, is far from neutral; aside from her specifically regional accent, 
she reveals by the use of the triad, "irritable, tense, depressed", 
a certain pedantic itemization that indicates she has some familiarity 
with literary or scientific language (i&e&, she must have 
had at least a high-school education), and she is telling a story she 
has mentally rehearsed some time before. Then she catapults into "everything 
and everybody", putting particular violence on "everybody", 
indicating to the linguist that this is a spot to flag- that 
is, it is not congruent to the patient's general style of speech up 
to this point. Consequently, it is referred to the therapist for attention. 
He may then very well conclude that "everybody" is probably 
not the true target of her resentment. Immediately thereafter, the 
patient fractures her rehearsed story, veering into an oversoft, breathy, 
sloppily articulated, "I don't feel like talking right now".

Within the first five minutes of this interview it is apparent 
to the therapist that "everybody" truthfully refers to the woman's 
husband. She says later, but still within the opening five minutes, 
"I keep thinking of a divorce but that's another emotional death".

The linguistic and paralinguistic signals of misery are 
all present in the voice chart for this sentence; so are certain 
signals that she does not accept divorce. By saying "a<noth>er emotional 
death", she reveals that there has been a previous one, although 
she has not described it in words. This the therapist may pursue 
in 
later questioning. The phrase, "emotional death", interesting and, 
to a non-scientific mind, rather touching, suggests that this woman 
may have some flair for words, perhaps even something of the temperament 
regrettably called "creative".   Since the psychiatric interview, 
like any other interview, depends on communication, it is significant 
to note that the therapist in this interview was a man of marked 
skill and long experience. His own communication apparatus operated 
superbly, and Lillian Ross readers will note instantly its total 
lack of resemblance to the blunted, monumentally unmeshed mechanism of 
Dr& Blauberman. Interestingly enough- although none of the real-life 
therapists involved could conceivably compare with Blauberman- 
when groups of them began playing back interviews, they discovered 
any number of ways in which they wanted to polish their own interview 
techniques; almost everyone, on first hearing one of his own sessions 
on tape, expressed some desire to take the whole thing over again.

Yet, in spite of this, intensive study of the taped interviews 
by teams of psychotherapists and linguists laid bare the surprising fact 
that, in the first five minutes of an initial interview, the patient 
often reveals as many as a dozen times just what's wrong with him; 
to spot these giveaways the therapist must know either intuitively 
or scientifically how to listen. Naturally, the patient does not say, 
"I hate my father", or "Sibling rivalry is what bugs me". 
What he <does> do 
is give himself away by communicating information over 
and above the words involved. Some of the classic indicators, as described 
by Drs& Pittenger, Hockett, and Danehy in <The First 
Five Minutes>, are these: _AMBIGUITY OF PRONOUNS:_ Stammering 
or repetition of <I, you, he, she>, et cetera may signal 
ambiguity 
or uncertainty. On the other hand significant facts may be concealed- 
<she> may mean <I>; or <everybody>, as it did with the tense 
and irritable woman mentioned before, may refer to a specific person. 
The word that is <not> used can be as important as the word that 
<is> used; therapist and/or linguist must always consider the alternatives. 
When someone says, for example, "They took ~X rays to 
see that there was nothing wrong with me", it pays to consider how 
this statement would normally be made. (This patient, in actuality, 
was a neurasthenic who had almost come to the point of accepting the 
fact 
that it was not her soma but her psyche that was the cause of her difficulty.) 
**h Amateur linguists note here that Pursewarden, in Durrell's 
Alexandria Quartet, stammered when he spoke of his wife, which 
is hardly surprising in view of their disastrous relationship.

@ She was just another freighter from the States, and she seemed 
as commonplace as her name. She was the <John Harvey,> one 
of those Atlantic sea-horses that had sailed to Bari to bring beans, 
bombs, and bullets to the U&S& Fifteenth Air Force, to Field 
Marshal Montgomery's Eighth Army then racing up the calf of the 
boot of Italy in that early December of 1943.   The <John Harvey> 
arrived in Bari, a port on the Adriatic, on November 28th, 
making for Porto Nuovo, which, as the name indicates, was the ancient 
city's new and modern harbor. Hardly anyone ashore marked her as 
she anchored stern-to off Berth 29 on the mole. If anyone thought 
of the <John Harvey,> it was to observe that she was straddled by 
a pair of ships heavily laden with high explosive and if they were hit 
the <John Harvey> would likely be blown up with her own ammo and 
whatever else it was that she carried.   Which was poison gas. 
##

It had required the approval of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt 
before the <John Harvey> could be loaded with 100 tons of 
mustard gas and despatched to the Italian warfront. For in a world 
as yet unacquainted with the horrors of the mushroom cloud, poison gas 
was still regarded as the ultimate in hideous weapons.   Throughout 
the early years of World War /2,, reports persisted that the 
Axis powers had used gas- Germany in Russia, Japan in China again. 
They were always denied. Influential people in America were warning 
the Pentagon to be prepared against desperation gas attacks by 
the Germans in future campaigns. Some extremists went so far as to 
urge our using it first. To silence extremists, to warn the Axis, President 
Roosevelt issued this statement for the Allies in August:

"From time to time since the present war began there have 
been reports that one or more of the Axis powers were seriously contemplating 
use of poisonous gas or noxious gases or other inhumane devices 
of warfare. I have been loath to believe that any nation, even our 
present enemies, could or would be willing to loose upon mankind such 
terrible and inhumane weapons.   "However, evidence that the 
Axis powers are making significant preparations indicative of such an 
intention is being reported with increasing frequency from a variety 
of sources.   "Use of such weapons has been outlawed by the 
general opinion of civilized mankind. This country has not used them, 
and I hope that we never will be compelled to use them. I state categorically 
that we shall under no circumstances resort to the use of such 
weapons unless they are first used by our enemies".   The 
following month the invasion of Italy was begun, and Roosevelt gave 
effect to his warning by consenting to the stockpiling of poison gas in 
southern Italy. Bari was chosen as a depot, not only for its seeming 
safety, but because of its proximity to airfields. Any retaliatory 
gas attack would be airborne. It would be made in three waves- the 
first to lay down a smokescreen, the second to drop the gas bombs, the 
third to shower incendiaries which would burn everything below.

So the vile cargo went into the hole of the <John Harvey>. A 
detachment 
of six men from the 701st Chemical Maintenance Company under 
First Lt& Howard D& Beckstrom went aboard, followed by Lt& 
Thomas H& Richardson, the Cargo Security Officer. Secrecy 
was paramount. Only a few other people- very important people- knew 
of the nitrogen-mustard eggs nestled below decks. No one else must 
know. Thus, in the immemorial way- in the way of the right hand that 
knows and the left that does not- was the stage set for tragedy 
at Bari.   It was the night of December 2, 1943, and it was growing 
dark in Bari. It was getting on toward 7 o'clock and the German 
~Me-210 
plane had been and gone on its eighth straight visit. Capt& 
A& B& Jenks of the Office of Harbor Defense was very 
worried. He knew that German long-range bombers had been returning 
to the attack in Italy. On November 24th, they had made a raid on La 
Maddalena. Two days later, some 30 of them had struck at a convoy 
off Bougie, sinking a troopship- and it had been that very night that 
the ~Me-210 had made its first appearance. After it had reappeared 
the next two nights, Jenks went to higher headquarters and said:

"For three days now a German reconnaissance plane has been 
over the city taking pictures. They're just waiting for the proper 
time to come over here and dump this place into the Adriatic".

But the older and wiser heads had dismissed his warning as alarmist. 
Even though it was known that the Luftwaffe in the north was now 
being directed by the young and energetic General Peltz, the commander 
who would conduct the "Little Blitz" on London in 1944, a 
major raid on Bari at this juncture of the war was not to be considered 
seriously. True, there had been raids on Naples- but Naples was 
pretty far north on the opposite coast. No, Bari was out of range. 
More than that, Allied air had complete superiority in the Eighth 
Army's sector. So Captain Jenks returned to his harbor post to watch 
the scouting plane put in five more appearances, and to feel the 
certainty of this dread rising within him. For Jenks knew that Bari's 
defenses were made of paper. The Royal Air Force had but a single 
light anti-aircraft squadron and two balloon units available. There 
were no R&A&F& fighter squadrons on Bari airfield. The 
radar station with the best location was still not serviceable. Telephone 
communication was bad. And everywhere in evidence among the few 
remaining defensive units was that old handmaiden of disaster- multiple 
command.   It had been made shockingly evident that very morning 
to Ensign Kay K& Vesole, in charge of the armed guard aboard the 
<John Bascom>. A British officer had come aboard and told him 
that in case of enemy air attack he was not to open fire until bombs 
were actually dropped. Then he was to co-ordinate his fire with a 
radar-controlled 
shore gun firing white tracers.   "This harbor is 
a bomber's paradise", the Britisher had said with frank grimness. 
"It's up to you to protect yourselves. We can't expect any 
help from the fighters at Foggia, either. They're all being used on 
offensive missions".   Vesole had been stunned. Not fire until 
the bombs came down! He thought of the tons and tons of flammable 
fluid beneath his feet and shook his head. Like hell! Like hell 
he'd wait- and supposing the radar-controlled gun got knocked out? 
What would his guns guide on then- the North Star? Ensign 
Vesole decided that he would not tarry until he heard the whispering 
of the bombs, and when night began to fall, he put Seaman 2/~c Donald 
L& Norton and Seaman 1/~c William A& Rochford on the guns 
and told them to start shooting the moment they saw an enemy silhouette. 
Below decks, Seaman 1/~c Stanley Bishop had begun to write 
a letter home. ##

Above decks on the <John Harvey,> Lieutenant 
Richardson gazed at the lights still burning on the port wall and 
felt uneasy. There were lights glinting in the city, too, even though 
it was now dark enough for a few stars to become visible. Bari was 
asking for it, he thought.   For five days now, they had been 
in port and that filthy stuff was still in the hold. Richardson wondered 
when it would be unloaded. He hoped they would put it somewhere way, 
way down in the earth. The burden of his secret was pressing down 
on him, as it was on Lieutenant Beckstrom and his six enlisted men. 
Lieutenant Richardson could envy the officers and men of the <John 
Harvey> in their innocent assumption that the ship contained nothing 
more dangerous than high explosive bombs. They seemed happy at the 
delay in unloading, glad at the chance to go ashore in a lively liberty 
port such as Bari. Nine of them had gone down the gangplank already. 
Deck Cadet James L& Cahill and Seaman Walter Brooks had 
been the first to leave. Richardson had returned their departing grins 
with the noncommittal nod that is the security officer's stock in 
trade.   The other half of the crew, plus Beckstrom and his men, 
had remained aboard. Richardson glanced to sea and started slightly. 
Damned if that wasn't a sailing ship standing out of the old harbor- 
Porto Vecchio. The night was so clear that Richardson had no 
difficulty making out the silhouette. Then the thought of a cloudless 
sky made him shiver, and he glanced upward. His eyes boggled.

It was a clear night and it was raining!   Capt& Michael 
A& Musmanno, Military governor of the Sorrentine Peninsula, had 
also seen and felt the "rain". But he had mistaken it for bugs.

Captain Musmanno's renovated schooner with the flamboyant 
name <Unsinkable> had just left Porto Vecchio with a cargo of badly-needed 
olive oil for the Sorrentine's civilian population. Musmanno 
was on deck. At exactly 7:30, he felt a fluttering object brush 
his face. He snatched at it savagely. He turned the beam of his flashlight 
on it. He laughed. It was the silver foil from the chocolate 
bar he had been eating. He frowned. But how could-? Another, 
longer strip of tinsel whipped his mouth. It was two feet long. It was 
not candy wrapping.   It was "window"- the tinsel paper 
dropped by bombers to jam radar sets, to fill the scope with hundreds 
of blips that would seem to be approaching bombers.   "Fermate"! 
Musmanno bellowed to his Italian crewmen. "Stop! Stop 
the engines"!   <Unsinkable> slowed and stopped, hundreds 
of brilliant white flares swayed eerily down from the black, the air 
raid sirens ashore rose in a keening shriek, the anti-aircraft guns coughed 
and chattered- and above it all motors roared and the bombs came 
whispering and wailing and crashing down among the ships at anchor 
at Bari.   They had come from airports in the Balkans, these 
hundred-odd Junkers 88's. They had winged over the Adriatic, they 
had taken Bari by complete surprise and now they were battering her, 
attacking with deadly skill. They had ruined the radar warning system 
with their window, they had made themselves invisible above their flares. 
And they also had the lights of the city, the port wall lanterns, 
and a shore crane's spotlight to guide on. After the first two 
were blacked out, the third light was abandoned by a terrified Italian 
crew, who left their light to shine for nine minutes like an unerring 
homing beacon until British ~MP's shot it out.   In that 
interval, the German bombers made a hell of Bari harbor.   Merchant 
ships illuminated in the light of the flares, made to seem like 
stones imbedded in a lake of polished mud, were impossible to miss. 
The little <Unsinkable> sank almost immediately. Captain Musmanno 
roared at his men to lash three of the casks of olive oil together for 
a raft. They got it over the side and clambered aboard only a few 
minutes before their schooner went under.   <John Bascom> 
went down early, too. Ensign Vesole and his gunners had fought valiantly, 
but they had no targets. Most of the Junkers were above the 
blinding light of the flares, and the radar-controlled shore gun had 
been knocked out by one of the first sticks of bombs. Vesole rushed 
from gun to gun, attempting to direct fire. He was wounded, but fought 
on. Norton and Rochford fired wildly at the sounds of the motors. 
Bishop rushed on deck to grab a 20~mm gun, pumping out 400 rounds 
before sticks of three bombs each crashed into Holds One, Three and 
Five. Now the <Bascom> was mortally wounded. Luckily, she was 
not completely aflame and would go down before the gasoline could erupt.

The order to abandon ship was given, but cries of pain could 
be heard from the wounded below decks.

THERE IS a pause in the merriment as your friends gaze at 
you, wondering why you are staring, open-mouthed in amazement. You explain, 
"I have the strangest feeling of having lived through this 
very same event before. I can't tell when, but I'm positive I witnessed 
this same scene of this particular gathering at some time in 
the past"!   This experience will have happened to many of 
you.   Emerson, in his lecture, refers to the "**h startling experience 
which almost every person confesses in daylight, that particular 
passages of conversation and action have occurred to him in the same 
order before, whether dreaming or waking, a suspicion that they have 
been with precisely these persons in precisely this room, and heard 
precisely this dialogue, at some former hour, they know not when".

Most psychiatrists dismiss these instances of that weird feeling 
as the <deja vue (already seen)> illusion, just as they dismiss 
dream previsions as coincidences. In this manner they side-step the seemingly 
hopeless investigation of the greater depths of mystery in which 
all of us grope continually.   When a man recognizes a certain 
experience as the exact pattern of a previous dream, we have an instance 
of <deja vue>, 
except for the fact that he knows just why the experience 
seems familiar. Occasionally there are examples of prevision 
which cannot be pushed aside without confessing an unscientific attitude.

One day Maeterlinck, coming with a friend upon an event 
which he recognized as the exact pattern of a previous dream, detailed 
the ensuing occurrences in advance so accurately that his companion 
was completely mystified.   Rudyard Kipling's scorn for the "jargon" 
of psychical research was altered somewhat when he wondered 
"**h how, or why, had I been shown an unreleased roll of my life 
film"? The famous author tells us of the strange incident in <Something 
About Myself>.   One day when he attended a war memorial 
ceremony in Westminster Abbey his view was obstructed by a stout 
man on his left, his attention turned to the irregular pattern of the 
rough slab flooring and someone, clasping him by the arm, whispered, 
"I want a word with you, please". At that moment Kipling was 
overwhelmed with awed amazement, suddenly recalling that these identical 
details of scene, action and word had occurred to him in a dream six 
weeks earlier.   Freud probably contributed more than anyone else 
to the understanding of dreams, enabling us to recognize their equivalents 
in our wakeful thoughts. However, readers who accept Freud's 
findings and believe that he has solved completely the mystery of 
dreams, should ponder over the following words in his <Interpretation 
Of Dreams,> Chapter /1,: "**h as a matter of fact no such 
complete solution of the dream has ever been accomplished in any case, 
and what is more, every one attempting such solution has found that 
in most cases there have remained a great many components of the dream 
the source of which he has been unable to explain **h nor is the discussion 
closed on the subject of the mantic or prophetic power of dreams".

Dreams present many mysteries of telepathy, clairvoyance, 
prevision and retrovision. <The basic mystery of dreams, which embraces 
all the others and challenges us from even the most common typical 
dream, is in the fact that they are original, visual continuities>.

I recall the startling, vivid realism of a dream in which I 
lived through the horror of the bombing of a little Korean town. I am 
sure that nothing within me is capable of composing that life-like sequence, 
so complete in detail, from the hodge-podge of news pictures 
I have seen. And when psychology explains glibly, "but the subconscious 
mind is able to produce it" it refers to a mental region so vaguely 
identified that it may embrace the entire universal mind as conceivably 
as part of the individual mind.   Skeptics may deny the 
more startling phenomena of dreams as things they have never personally 
observed, but failure to wonder at their basic mystery is outright avoidance 
of routine evidence.   The question becomes, "What is 
a dream"?   Is a dream simply a mental or cerebral movie?

Every dream, and this is true of a mental image of any type 
even though it may be readily interpreted into its equivalent of wakeful 
thought, is a psychic phenomenon for which no explanation is available. 
In most cases we recognize certain words, persons, animals or objects. 
But these are dreamed in original action, in some particular continuity 
which we don't remember having seen in real life. For instance, 
the dreamer sees himself seated behind neighbor Smith and, with 
photographic realism, sees Smith driving the car; whereas, it is 
a matter of fact that Smith cannot drive a car. There is nothing to 
suggest that the brain can alter past impressions to fit into an original, 
realistic and unbroken continuity like we experience in dreams.

The entire concept of cerebral imagery as the physical basis of 
a mental image can find no logical support. <A "mental image" subconsciously 
impressing us from beneath its language symbols in wakeful 
thought, or consciously in light sleep, is actually not an image at 
all but is comprised of realities, viewed not in the concurrent sensory 
stream, but within the depths of the fourth dimension>.   Dreams 
that display events of the future with photographic detail call 
for a theory explaining their basic mystery and all its components, including 
that weird feeling of <deja vue>, inevitably fantastic though 
that theory must seem.   As in the theory of perception, established 
in psycho-physiology, the eye is recognized as an integral part 
of the brain. But then this theory confesses that it is completely at 
a loss as to how the image can possibly be received by the brain. The 
opening paragraph of the chapter titled <The Theory Of Representative 
Perception,> in the book <Philosophies Of Science> by 
Albert G& Ramsperger says, "**h passed on to the brain, and there, 
by some unexplained process, it causes the mind to have a perception".

But why is it necessary to reproduce the retinal image 
within the brain? As retinal images are conceded to be an integral 
function of the brain it seems logical to suppose that the nerves, between 
the inner brain and the eyes, carry the direct drive for cooperation 
from the various brain centers- rather than to theorize on the 
transmission 
of an image which is already in required location. Hereby, 
the external object viewed by the eyes remains the thing that is seen, 
not the retinal image, the purpose of which would be to achieve perceptive 
cooperation by stirring sympathetic impulses in the other sensory 
centers, motor tensions, associated word symbols, and consciousness.

Modern physics has developed the theory that all matter consists 
of minute waves of energy. We know that the number of radio and 
television impulses, sound waves, ultra-violet rays, etc&, that may 
occupy 
the very same space, each solitary upon its own frequency, is infinite. 
So we may conceive the coexistence of the infinite number of universal, 
apparently momentary states of matter, successive one after 
another in consciousness, but permanent each on its own basic phase of 
the progressive frequencies. This theory makes it possible for any 
event throughout eternity to be continuously available at any moment to 
consciousness.   Space in any form is completely measured by the 
three dimensions. If the fourth dimension is a physical concept and 
not purely metaphysical, through what medium does it extend? It is 
not through space nor time that the time machine most approved by science 
fiction must travel for a visit to the permanent prehistoric past, 
or the ever-existent past-fantasy future. Three seconds flat is the 
usual time, and the space is crossed by moderate mileage, while the 
overwhelming immensity of such journeys must be conceived as a static 
pulsation through an enormous number of coexistent frequencies which 
perpetuate all events.   The body, senses and brain, in common with 
all matter, have their counterpart on each of a countless number of 
frequencies. The senses in each counterpart bear the impression only 
of phenomena that share its own frequency, whereas those upon all other 
frequencies are invisible, inaudible and intactible to them. Consciousness 
is the factor that provides the progressive continuity to sensory 
impressions. When consciousness deserts the sleeping body and the 
wakeful world, it continues in the myriad progressions of the ever-present 
past and future, in a life as vibrant and real as the one left 
when the body tired and required sleep.   If the photographically 
realistic continuity of dreams, however bizarre their combinations, 
denies that it is purely a composition of the brain, it must be compounded 
from views of diverse realities, although some of them may never 
be encountered in what we are pleased to call the real life.   Dr& 
H& V& Hilprecht, Professor of Assyrian at the University 
of Pennsylvania, dreamed that a Babylonian priest, associated with 
the king Kurigalzu, (1300 B&C&) escorted him to the treasure 
chamber of the temple of Bel, gave him six novel points of information 
about a certain broken relic, and corrected an error in its identification. 
As a matter of fact, the incorrect classification, the result 
of many weeks of labor by Dr& Hilprecht, was about to be published 
by him the following day. Some time later the missing part of the relic 
was found and the complete inscription, together with other new evidence, 
fully corroborated the ancient priest's information. Dr& 
Hilprecht was uncertain as to the language used by the ancient priest 
in his dream. He was almost positive it was not Assyrian nor Cassite, 
and imagined it must have been German or English.   We may 
conclude that all six points of information, ostensibly given by the 
dream priest, <could have> been furnished by Dr& Hilprecht's 
<subconscious> reasoning. But, in denying any physical reality for 
this dream, how could the brain possibly compose that realistic, vividly 
visual continuity uninterrupted by misty fadeout, violent break or 
sudden substitution? Which theory is more fantastic: 1. that the 
perfect continuity was composed from the joblot of memory impressions 
in the professor's brain, or 2. that the dream was a reality on the 
infinite progressions of universal, gradient frequencies, across which 
the modern professor and the priest of ancient Nippur met?

The degree of circumstance, the ratio of memory to forgetfulness, determines 
whether a dream will be a recognized, fulfilled prevision, or 
the vaguely, effective source of the weird <deja vue> feeling. No 
doubt some experiences vanish so completely as to leave no trace on the 
sleeper's mind. Probably less than one percent of our previsions 
escape final obliteration before we wake. When we arrive at the events 
concerned in the vanished majority, they, of course, cannot impress 
us as anything familiar. Nevertheless, there are notably frequent 
instances of <deja vue,> in which our recognition of an entirely novel 
event is a feeling of having lived through it before, a feeling which, 
though vague, withstands the verbal barrage from the most impressive 
corps of psychologists. If <deja vue> is an illusion, then peculiarly, 
it is a most prevalent mental disturbance affecting even the most 
level-headed people.   Chauncey Depew, one-time runner-up for 
the Republican Presidential nomination, was attending a convention 
at Saratoga, where he was scheduled to nominate Colonel Theodore Roosevelt 
for Governor of New York when he noticed that the temporary 
chairman was a man he had never met. After the preliminary business 
affair was finished Depew arose and delivered the convincing speech 
that clinched the nomination for Roosevelt. If Depew had told any 
academic psychologist that he had a weird feeling of having lived through 
that identical convention session at some time in the past, he would 
have been informed that he was a victim of <deja vue>. But the famous 
orator felt more than vague recognition for the scene. He remembered 
exactly when he had lived through it before, and he had something 
to prove he had.   One week before the convention, Depew was 
seated on the porch of a country home on the Hudson, gazing at the opposite 
shore.

"THE FOOD IS WONDERFUL and it is a lot of fun to be here"!

So wrote a ten year old student in a letter to his parents 
from North Country School, Lake Placid, New York. In this 
one sentence, he unwittingly revealed the basic philosophy of the nutrition 
and psychological programs in operation at the school.   Because 
the food is selected with thought for its nutritional value, care 
for its origin, and prepared in a manner that retains the most nutrients, 
the food <does> taste good. When served in a psychological 
atmosphere that allows young bodies to assimilate the greatest good from 
what they eat because they are free from tension, a foundation is laid 
for a high level of health that releases the children from physical 
handicaps to participate with enjoyment in the work assignments, the 
athletic programs and the most important phase, the educational opportunities.

Situated in a region of some of the loveliest mountain 
scenery in the country, the school buildings are located amid open 
fields 
and farm lands. These contemporary structures, beautifully adapted to 
a school in the country, are home to 60 children, ages eight to fourteen, 
grades four through eight. From fourteen states and three foreign 
countries they come to spend the months from mid-September to June.

The Director, Walter E& Clark, believes that a school 
with children living full time in its care must take full responsibility 
for their welfare. To him this means caring for the whole child, 
providing basic nutrition, and a spiritual attitude that lends freedom 
for the development of the mind. 

#IMPROVED FARMING METHODS#

The 
concept of good nutrition really began with the garden. The school has 
always maintained a farm to supply the needs of the school. In a climate 
hostile to agriculture, Mr& Clark has had to keep alert to the 
most productive farm techniques.   Where a growing season may, 
with luck, allow 60 days without frost, and where the soil is poor, 
sandy, quick-drying and subject to erosion, many farmers fail. Throughout 
the Adirondack region abandoned farm homes and wild orchards bear 
ghostly testimony that their owners met defeat.   Mr& Clark 
found that orthodox procedures of deep plowing, use of chemical fertilizers 
and insecticides, plus the application of conservation principles 
of rotation and contouring, did not prevent sheet erosion in the potato 
fields and depreciation of the soil.   "To give up these 
notions required a revolution in thought", Mr& Clark said in reminiscing 
about the abrupt changes in ideas he experienced when he began 
reading "Organic Gardening" and "Modern Nutrition" in a 
search for help with his problems.   "Louis Bromfield's writings 
excited me as a conservationist". By 1952 he was convinced he 
would no longer spray. He locked his equipment in a cabinet where it 
still remains. After reading "Plowman's Folly" by Edward H& 
Faulkner, he stopped plowing.   The basis for compost materials 
already existed on the school farm with a stable of animals for the 
riding program, poultry for eggs, pigs to eat garbage, a beef herd 
and wastes of all kinds. Separate pails were kept in the kitchen for 
coffee grounds and egg shells.   All these materials and supplementary 
manure and other fertilizers from neighboring dairy and poultry 
farms made over 40 tons of finished compost a year. It was applied 
with a compost shredder made from a converted manure spreader. 
Years of patient application of compost and leaf mulching has changed 
the structure of the soil and its water-holding capacity. Soon after 
the method changed, visitors began asking how he managed to irrigate 
his soil to keep it looking moist, when in reality, it was the soil treatment 
alone that accomplished this.   To demonstrate the soil 
of his vegetable gardens as it is today, Mr& Clark stooped to scoop 
up a handful of rich dark earth. Sniffing its sweet smell and letting 
it fall to show its good crumbly consistency, he pointed to the nearby 
driveway and said, "This soil used to be like that hard packed 
road over there".   "People and soils respond slowly", says 
Walter Clark, "but the time has now come when the gardens produce 
delicious long-keeping vegetables due to this enrichment program. No 
chemical fertilizers and poisonous insecticides and fungicides are 
used".   The garden supplies enough carrots, turnips, rutabagas, 
potatoes, beets, cabbage and squash to store for winter meals in the 
root cellar. The carrots sometimes don't make it through the winter; 
the cabbage and squash keep until March or April. There is never 
enough corn, peas or strawberries.   Mr& Clark still has 
to use rotenone with potatoes grown on the least fertile fields, but he 
has watched the insect damage decrease steadily and hopes that continued 
use of compost and leaf mulch will allow him to do without it in 
the 
future. A new project planned is the use of Bio-Dynamic Starter.

New ideas for improving nutrition came with the study of soil 
treatment. "After the soil, the kitchen", says Mr& Clark. The 
first major change was that of providing wholewheat bread instead of 
white bread.   "Adults take a long time to convince and you are 
thwarted if you try to push". At first the kitchen help was tolerant, 
but ordered their own supply of white bread for themselves. "You 
can't make French toast with whole-wheat bread", was an early 
complaint. Of course they learned in time that they not only could use 
whole-wheat bread, but the children liked it better. 

#HOMEMADE BREAD# 

Mrs& Clark, as house manager, planned the menus and cared for 
the ordering. Then Miss Lillian Colman came from Vermont to be 
kitchen manager. Today whole grains are freshly ground every day and 
baked into bread. Mr& Clark's studies taught him that the only 
way to conserve the vitamins in the whole grain was prompt use of the 
flour. Once the grains are ground, vitamin ~E begins to deteriorate 
immediately and half of it is lost by oxidation and exposure to the 
air within one week.   A mill stands in a room off the kitchen. 
Surrounding it are metal cans of grains ordered from organic farms in 
the state. Miss Colman pours measures of whole wheat, oats, and soy 
beans and turns on the motor. She goes on about her work and listens 
for the completion of the grinding. The bread baked from this mixture 
is light in color and fragrant in aroma. It is well liked by the children 
and faculty.   There is one problem with the bread. "Lillian's 
bread is so good and everything tastes so much better here 
that it is hard not to eat too much", said the secretary ruefully eyeing 
her extra pounds. 

#HOT, FRESHLY-GROUND CEREAL#

The school has 
not used cold prepared cereals for years, though at one time that was 
all they ever served. When the chance came, they first eliminated 
cold cereal once a week, then gradually converted to hot fresh-ground 
cereal every day.   They serve cracked wheat, oats or cornmeal. 
Occasionally, the children find steamed, whole-wheat grains for cereal 
which they call "buckshot". At the beginning of the school year, 
the new students don't eat the cereal right away, but within a short 
time they are eating it voraciously.   When they leave for vacations 
they miss the hot cereal. The school has received letters from 
parents asking, "What happened to Johnny? He never used to like 
any hot cereal, now that's the only kind he wants. Where can we 
get this cereal he likes so much"? 

#BODY-BUILDING FOODS#

Salads 
are served at least once a day. Vegetables are served liberally. Most 
come from the root cellar or from the freezer. Home-made sauerkraut 
is served once a week. Sprouted grains and seeds are used in salads 
and dishes such as chop suey. Sometimes sprouted wheat is added to 
bread and causes the children to remark, "Lillian, did you put nuts 
in the bread today"?   Milk appears twice a day. The school 
raises enough poultry, pigs, and beef cattle for most of their needs. 
Lots of cheese made from June grass milk is served. Hens are kept 
on the range and roosters are kept with them for their fertility.

Organ meats such as beef and chicken liver, tongue and heart are 
planned once a week. Also, salt water fish is on the table once a week.

For deserts, puddings and pies are each served once a week. 
Most other desserts are fruit in some form, fresh fruits once daily 
at least, sometimes at snack time. Dried fruits are purchased from sources 
where they are neither sulphured nor sprayed. Apples come 
from 
a farm in Vermont where they are not sprayed. Oranges and grapefruit 
are shipped from Florida weekly from an organic farm.   Finding 
sources for these high quality foods is a problem. Sometimes the 
solution comes in unexpected ways. Following a talk by Mr& Clark 
at the New York State Natural Food Associates Convention, a man 
from the audience offered to ship his unsprayed apples to the school 
from Vermont.   Wheat-germ, brewer's yeast and ground kelp are 
used in bread and in dishes such as spaghetti sauce, meat loaves. Miss 
Colman hopes to find suitable shakers so that kelp can be available 
at the tables. Raw wheat-germ is available on the breakfast table 
for the children to help themselves.   Very few fried foods are 
used and the use of salt and pepper is discouraged. Drinking with meals 
is also discouraged; pitchers of water merely appear on the tables.

Nothing is peeled. The source is known so there is no necessity 
to remove insecticide residues. The cooking conserves a maximum 
of the vitamin ~C content of vegetables by methods which use very 
little water and cook in the shortest time possible. 

#WHOLESOME SNACKS, 
NO CANDY#

Since Mr& Clark believes firmly that the chewing 
of hard foods helps develop healthy gums and teeth, raw vegetables and 
raw whole-wheat grains are handed out with fresh fruit and whole-wheat 
cookies at snack time in the afternoons. To solve the problem of the 
wheat grains spilling on the floor and getting underfoot, a ball of 
maple syrup boiled to candy consistency was invented to hold the grains.

On their frequent hikes into the nearby mountains, the children 
carry whole grains to munch along the trail. They learn to like 
these so well that it isn't surprising to hear that one boy tried the 
oats he was feeding his horse at chore time. They tasted good to him, 
so he brought some to breakfast to eat in his cereal bowl with milk 
and honey.   Maple syrup is made by the children in the woods 
on the school grounds. This and raw sugar replace ordinary refined sugar 
on the tables and very little sugar is used in cooking. Candy is 
not allowed. Parents are asked in the bulletin to send packages of treats 
consisting of fruit and nuts, but no candy. 

#NOURISHING MEALS# 

Mr& Clark believes in a good full breakfast of fruit, hot cereal, 
milk, honey, whole-wheat toast with real butter and eggs. The heavy 
meal comes in the middle of the day. Soup is often the important dish 
at supper. Homemade of meat, bones and vegetables, it is rich in dissolved 
minerals and vitamins.   The school finds that the children 
are satisfied with smaller amounts of food since all of it is high 
in quality. The cost to feed one person is just under one dollar a 
day. 

#OUTDOOR EXERCISES#

Even before he saw the necessity of growing 
better food and planning good nutrition, Mr& Clark felt the school 
had a good health program. Rugged outdoor exercise for an hour and 
a half every day in all kinds of weather was the rule. A vigorous 
program existed in skiing, skating sports and overnight hiking. 

#HEALTHIER 
CHILDREN#

Since the change to better nutrition, he feels he 
can report on improvements in health, though he considers the following 
statements observations and not scientific proof.   Visitors to 
the school ask what shampoo they use on the children's hair to bring 
out the sheen. The ruddy complexion of the faces also brings comment.

BUFFETED by swirling winds, the little green biplane struggled 
northward between the mountains beyond Northfield Gulf. Wires 
whined as a cold November blast rocked the silver wings, but the engine 
roar was reassuring to the pilot bundled in the open cockpit. He 
peered ahead and grinned as the railroad tracks came into view again 
below.   "Good old iron compass"! he thought.   A plume 
of smoke rose from a Central Vermont locomotive which idled behind 
a string of gravel cars, and little figures that were workmen labored 
to set the ruptured roadbed to rights. The girders of a shattered 
Dog River bridge lay strewn for half a mile downstream. Vermont's 
main railroad line was prostrate. And in the dark days after the Great 
Flood of 1927- the worst natural disaster in the state's 
history- 
the little plane was its sole replacement in carrying the United 
States mails.   Rain of near cloudburst proportions had fallen 
for three full days and it was still raining on the morning of Friday, 
November 4, 1927, when officials of the Post Office Department's 
Railway Mail Service realized that their distribution system for 
Vermont had been almost totally destroyed overnight. Clerks and postmasters 
shoveled muck out of their offices- those who still had offices- 
and wondered how to move the mail. The state's railroad system 
counted miles of broken bridges and missing rights-of-way: it would 
obviously remain out of commission for weeks. And once medicine, 
food, clothing and shelter had been provided for the flood's victims, 
communications and the mail were the next top problems.   From 
Burlington, outgoing mail could be ferried across Lake Champlain 
to the railroad at Port Kent, N& Y&. But what came in was piling 
up. The nearest undisrupted end of track from Boston was at Concord, 
N& H&. When Governor Al Smith offered New York National 
Guard planes to fly the mail in and out of the state, it seemed 
a likely temporary solution, easing Burlington's bottleneck and that 
at Montpelier too.   The question was "Where to land"? 
There was no such thing as an airport in Vermont. Burlington aviator 
John J& Burns suggested the parade ground southwest of Fort 
Ethan Allen, and soon a dozen hastily-summoned National Guard pilots 
were bringing their wide-winged "Jenny" and DeHaviland two-seaters 
to rest on the frozen sod of the military base.   The only 
available field that could be used near flood-ravaged Montpelier was 
on the Towne farm off upper Main Street, a narrow hillside where 
takeoffs and landings could be safely made only under light wind conditions. 
Over in Barre the streets had been deep in swirling water, and 
bridges were crumpled and gone. Anticipating delivery of medicines 
and yeast by plane, Granite City citizens formed an airfield committee 
and with the aid of quarrymen and the 172nd Infantry, Vermont National 
Guard, laid out runways on Wilson flat, high on Millstone Hill. 
The "Barre Aviation Field" was set to receive its first 
aircraft the Sunday following the flood.   Though the makeshift 
airports were ready, the York State Guard flyers proved unable to 
keep any kind of mail schedule. They had courage but their meager training 
consisted of weekend hops in good weather, in and out of established 
airports, And the increasingly cold weather soon raised hob with 
the water cooled engines of their World War /1, planes. It seemed 
like a good time for officials to use a recently-passed law empowering 
the post office department to contract for the transport of first 
class mail by air. They had to act fast, for letters were clogging the 
terminals.   Down in Concord, New Hampshire, was a flier 
in the right place at the right time: Robert S& Fogg, a native 
New Englander, had been a World War /1, flying instructor, barnstormer, 
and one of the original planners of the Concord Airport. Tall, 
wiry, dark-haired Bob Fogg had already racked up one historical 
first in air mail history. Piloting a Curtiss Navy ~MF flying 
boat off Lake Winnipesaukee in 1925, he had inaugurated the original 
Rural Delivery air service in America.   During the excitement 
following Lindbergh's flight to Paris earlier in 1927, dare devil 
aviators overnight became legendary heroes. In Concord, Bob 
Fogg 
was the most prominent New Hampshire boy with wings. Public-spirited 
backers staked him to a brand-new airplane, aimed at putting their 
city and state on the flying map. The ship was a Waco biplane, one 
of the first two of its type to be fitted with the air cooled, 225~HP 
Wright radial engine known as the Whirlwind. A trim green and silver-painted 
craft only 22-1/2 feet long, the Waco was entered to 
compete in the "On-to-Spokane" Air Derby of 1927. As a matter 
of fact, Fogg and his plane didn't get beyond Pennsylvania in the 
race- an engine oil leak forced him down- but the flying service 
and school he started subsequently were first steps in paying off his 
wry-faced backers. So with all this experience, Bob Fogg was a natural 
choice to receive the first Emergency Air Mail Star Route contract. 
His work began just six days after the flood.   By airline 
from Concord to Burlington is a distance of about 150 miles, counting 
a slight deviation for the stop at either Barre or Montpelier. 
The first few days Bob Fogg set his plane down on Towne field back 
of the State House when the wind was right, and used Wilson flat 
above Barre when it wasn't. Between the unsafe Towne field and the 
long roundabout back road haul that was necessary to gain access to 
Wilson flat, arrangements at the state capital were far from satisfactory. 
Each time in, the unhappy pilot, pushing his luck, begged the postal 
officials that met him to find a safer landing place, preferably 
on the flat-topped hills across the Winooski River.   "But 
Fogg", they countered, "we can't get over there. And besides you 
seem to make it all right here". It took a tragedy to bring things 
to a head. After a week of precarious uphill landings and downwind 
takeoffs, Fogg one day looked down at the shattered yellow wreckage 
of an Army plane strewn across snow-covered Towne field. Sent to 
Montpelier by Secretary Herbert Hoover, Red Cross Aide Reuben 
Sleight had been killed, and his pilot, Lt& Franklin Wolfe, badly 
injured. With the field a blur of white the unfortunate pilot had simply 
flown into the hillside.   Faced with this situation, Postmaster 
Charles F& McKenna of Montpelier went with Fogg on a Burlington 
trip, and together they scouted the terrain on the heights 
of Berlin. A long flat known as the St& John field seemed to answer 
their purpose, and since the Winooski bridges were at last passable, 
they decided to use it.   With a wary eye on the farmer's 
bull, Fred Somers of Montpelier and Mr& St& John marked the 
field with a red table cloth. As a wind direction indicator, they tied 
a cotton rag to a sapling. With these aids, and a pair of skiis substituting 
for wheels on the Waco, Bob Fogg made the first landing on 
what is now part of the Barre-Montpelier Airport on November 21, 
1927.   Each trip saw the front cockpit filled higher with mail 
pouches. During the second week of operations, Fogg received a telegram 
from the Post Office Department, asking him to "put on two airplanes 
and make two flights daily, plus one Sunday trip". Since 
Fogg's was a one-man, one-plane flying service, this meant that he 
would have to do both trips, flying alone 600 miles a day, under sub-freezing 
temperature conditions.   Over the weeks, America's 
first Star Route Air Mail settled into a routine pattern despite the 
vagaries of weather and the lack of ground facilities and aids to navigation. 
Each morning at five Fogg crawled out of bed to bundle into 
flying togs over the furnace register of his home. Always troubled 
by poor circulation in his feet, he experimented with various combinations 
of socks and shoes before finally adopting old-style felt farmer's 
boots with his sheepskin flying boots pulled over them. A sheep-lined 
leather flying suit, plus helmet, goggles and mittens completed 
his attire for the rigors of the open cockpit. The airman's stock answer 
to "Weren't you cold"? became "Yes, the first half hour 
is tough, but by then I'm so numb I don't notice it"!

As daylight began to show through the frosty windows, Fogg would 
place a call to William A& Shaw at the U& S& Weather Station 
at Northfield, Vermont, for temperature and wind-velocity readings. 
Shaw could also give the flyer a pretty good idea of area visibility 
by a visual check of the mountains to be seen from his station. 
"Ceilings" were judged by comparison with known mountain heights 
and cloud positions. Later on in the day Fogg could get a better weather 
picture from the Burlington Weather Bureau supervised by Frank 
E& Hartwell.   Out at the airport each morning, Fogg's 
skilled mechanic Caleb Marston would have the Waco warmed up and running 
in the drafty hangar. (He'd get the engine oil flowing with an 
electric heater under a big canvas cover.) Wishing to show that aviation 
was dependable and here to stay, Bob Fogg always made a point 
of taking off each morning on the dot of seven, disregarding rain, snow 
and sleet in true postal tradition. Concord learned to set its clocks 
by the rackety bark of the Whirlwind's exhaust overhead. Sometimes 
the pilot had to turn back if fully blocked by fog, but 85% of his 
trips were completed.   Plane radios were not yet available, 
and once in the air, Fogg flew his ship by compass, a good memory for 
landmarks as seen from above, and a capacity for dead reckoning and quick 
computation. Often, threading through the overcast, he was forced 
to fly close to the ground by a low ceiling, skimming above the Winooski 
or the White River along the line of the broken railroad. When 
driving rain or mist socked in one valley, Fogg would chandelle up 
and over to reverse course and try another one, ranging from the Ottauquechee 
up to Danville in search of safe passage through the mountain 
passes.   The dependable Wright engine was never stopped on 
these trips. It ticked over smoothly, idling while Fogg exchanged 
mails with the armed messenger from Burlington at Fort Ethan Allen, 
and one from Montpelier and Barre at the St& John field.

Sometimes, on a return trip, the aviator would "go upstairs" high 
over the clouds. There he'd take a compass heading, figure his 
air speed, and deduce that in a certain number of minutes he'd be over 
the broad meadows of the Merrimack Valley where it would be safe 
to let down through the overcast and see the ground before it hit him. 
Bob Fogg didn't have today's advantages of Instrument Flight 
and Ground Control Approach systems. At the end of the calculated 
time he'd nose the Waco down through the cloud bank and hope to break 
through where some feature of the winter landscape would be recognizable.

Usually back in Concord by noon, there was just time 
to get partially thawed out, refuel, and grab a bit of Mrs& Fogg's 
hot broth before starting the second trip. Day after day Fogg shuttled 
back and forth on his one-man air mail route, until the farmers 
in their snowy barnyards and the road repairmen came to recognize the 
stubby plane as their link with the rest of the country.   The 
flyer had his share of near-misses. At Fort Ethan Allen the ever-present 
wind off Lake Champlain could readily flip a puny man-made thing 
like an airplane if the pilot miscalculated. Once the soldiers from 
the barracks had to hold the ship from blowing away while Fogg revved 
the engine and got the tail up. At a nod of his head they let go, 
turning to cup their ears against the icy slipstream. Tracks in the 
snow showed the plane was airborne in less than a hundred feet.

One afternoon during a cold, powdery snowstorm, Fogg took off for 
Concord from the St& John field. 
{A}re you retiring now? If so, are you saying, "Where did 
the last 
few years go? How did I get to be sixty-five so fast? What do 
I do now"?   Yes, retirement seems to creep upon you suddenly. 
Somehow we old-timers never figured we would ever retire. We always 
thought we would die with our boots on. Out of the blue comes talk 
of pension plans. Compulsory retirement at sixty-five looms on our 
horizon. Still, it seems in the far future. Suddenly, one day, up it 
pops! Sixty-five years and you've had it!   So, now what? 
Oh sure! You've thought about it before in a hazy sort of way. 
But! It never seemed real; never seemed as if it could happen 
to you; only to the other fellow.   Now! Here it is! How 
am I going to live? What am I going to do? Where do I go from 
here?   A great many retired people are the so-called white 
collar workers. Are you one of these?   If so, you are of the 
old school. You are conscientious, hard working, honest, accurate, 
a good penman, and a stickler for a job well done, with no loose ends. 
Everything must balance to the last penny. Also you can spell, without 
consulting a dictionary for every other word. You never are late 
for work and seldom absent. ##

{Actually, you can take no special 
credit for this.} It is the way you were taught and your way of 
life. All this is standard equipment for a man of your day; your stock 
in trade; your livelihood.   However, the last few years 
of your life, things seem to be changing. Your way doesn't seem to 
be so darned important any more. You realize you are getting in the old 
fogy class. To put it bluntly, you are getting out-moded.   What's 
happened? The answer is a new era.   Now, looming on 
the horizon are such things as estimated totals, calculated risks and 
I&B&M& machines. The Planning Dept& comes into existence. 
All sorts of plans come to life. This is followed by a boom in conferences. 
Yes sir! Conferences become very popular. When a plan 
burst its seams, hasty conferences supply the necessary patch, and life 
goes merrily on. That's called progress! The new way of life! 
Let's face it! You had your day and it was a good day. Let this 
generation have theirs. Time marches on!   Well, to get back 
to the problem of retirement. Every retiring person has a different 
situation facing him. Some have plenty of money- some have very little 
money. Some are blest with an abundance of good health- some 
are in poor health and many are invalids. Some have lovely homes- 
some live in small apartments. Some have beautiful gardens- some not 
even a blade of grass. Some have serenity of mind, the ability to accept 
what they have, and make the most of it (a wonderful gift to have, 
believe me)- some see only darkness, the bitter side of everything. 
Well, whatever you have, that's it! You've got to learn to 
live with it.   Now! The question is "How are you going to 
live with it"? ##

{You can sit back and moan and bewail your 
lot.} Yes! You can do this. But, if you do, your life will 
be just one thing- unhappiness- complete and unabridged.   It 
seems to me, the first thing you've got to do, to be happy, is to 
face up to your problems, no matter what they may be. Make up your mind 
to pool your resources and get the most out of your remaining years 
of life. One thing, I am sure of, you must get an interest in life. 
You've got to do something.   Many of you will say, "Well, 
what can I do"?   Believe me! There are many, many things 
to do. Find out what you like to do most and really give it a whirl. 
If you can't think of a thing to do, try something- anything. 
Maybe you will surprise yourself.   True! We are not all great 
artists. I, frankly, can't draw a straight line. Maybe you are 
not that gifted either, but how about puttering around with the old paints? 
You may amaze yourself and acquire a real knack for it. Anyway, 
I'll bet you have a lot of fun.   Do you like to sew? Does 
making your own clothes or even doll clothes, interest you? Do 
you love to run up a hem, sew on buttons, make neat buttonholes? If 
you do, go to it. There is always a market for this line of work. Some 
women can sit and sew, crochet, tat or knit by the hour, and look 
calm and relaxed and turn out beautiful work. Where sewing is concerned, 
I'm a total loss. When you see a needle in my hands you will 
know the family buttons have fallen off and I have to sew them back on, 
or get out the safety pins.   Then again, there's always that 
lovely old pastime of hooking or braiding rugs. Not for me, but perhaps 
just the thing for you.   {Well! How's about mosaic 
tile, ceramics or similar arts and crafts?} Some people love to 
crack tile and it's amazing what beautiful designs they come up with 
as a result of their cracking good time.   How about the art of 
cooking? Do you yearn to make cakes and pies, or special cookies 
and candies? There is always an open market for this sort of delicacy, 
in spite of low calorie diets, cottage cheese and hands-off-all-sweets 
to the contrary.   Some people can carve most anything out 
of a piece of wood. Some make beautiful chairs, cabinets, chests, doll 
houses, etc&. 
Perhaps you couldn't do that but have you ever tried 
to see what you could do with a hunk of wood? Outside of cutting your 
fingers, maybe you would come up with nothing at all, but then again, 
you might turn out some dandy little gadgets.   Some women get 
a real thrill out of housework. They love to dust, scrub, polish, 
wax floors, move the furniture around from place to place, take down the 
curtains, put up new ones and have themselves a real ball. Maybe that's 
your forte. It certainly isn't mine. I can look at furniture 
in one spot year in and year out and really feel for sure that's 
where it belongs. ##

{Perhaps you would like to become a writer.} 
This gives you a wide and varied choice. Will it be short stories, 
fiction, nonfiction, biography, poetry, children's stories, or even 
a book if you are really ambitious?   Ever since I was a 
child, I have always had a yen to try my hand at writing. If you do 
decide to write, you will soon become acquainted with rejection slips 
and dejection. Don't be discouraged! This is just being a normal 
writer. Just let the rejection slips fall where they may, and keep 
on plugging, and finally you will make the grade. Few new writers have 
their first story accepted, so they tell me. But, it could happen, 
and it may happen to you.   Then there's always hobbies, collecting 
stamps, coins, timetables, salt and pepper shakers, elephants, 
dogs, dolls, shells, or shall we just say collecting anything your heart 
desires?   I can hear some of you folks protesting. You say, 
"But it costs a lot of money to have a hobby. I haven't got that 
kind of money".   True! It does cost a lot of money for 
most hobbies but there are hobbies that are for free. How about a rock 
collection, or a collection of leaves from different trees or shrubs 
and in different colors? Then, take flowers. They are many and varied. 
Also, there's scrap books, collecting newspaper pictures and 
clippings, or any items of interest to you. It's getting interested 
in something that counts. ##

{As for me, I am holding in reserve 
two huge puzzles (I love puzzles)} to put together when time hangs 
heavy on my hands. So far, the covers have never been off the 
boxes. I just don't have time to do half the things I want to do now.

So in closing, fellow retired members, I advise you to make 
the most of each day, enjoy each one to the ~n'th degree. Travel, 
if you can. Keep occupied to the point you are not bored with life 
and you will truly find these final days and years of your lives to 
be sunshine sweet.   Good Luck! To one and all- Good Days 
ahead! 
{A}n important criterion of maturity is creativity. The mature 
person 
is creative. What does it mean to be creative, a term we hear with increasing 
frequency these days? When we turn to Noah Webster we find 
him helpful as usual. "To be creative is to have the ability to 
cause to exist- to produce where nothing was before- to bring forth 
an original production of human intelligence or power". We are creative, 
it seems, when we produce something which has not previously existed. 
Thus creativity may run all the way from making a cake, building 
a chicken coop, or producing a book, to founding a business, creating 
a League of Nations or, developing a mature character.   All 
living creatures from the lowest form of insect or animal life evidence 
the power of creativity, if it is only to reproduce a form like their 
own. While man shares this procreative function with all his predecessors 
in the evolutionary process, he is the only animal with a true 
non-instinctive and conscious creative ability. An animal, bird or 
insect creates either a burrow, or nest or hive in unending sameness 
according to specie. Man's great superiority over these evolutionary 
forbears is in the development of his imagination. This gives him the 
power to form in his mind new image combinations of old memories, ideas 
and experiences and to project them outside of himself into his environment 
in new and ever-changing forms. ##

{I}t has been 
truly said 
that anything man can imagine he can produce or create by projecting 
this inner image into its counterpart in the objective world. In our 
own time we have seen the most fantastic imagery of a Jules Verne 
come into actuality. The vision of a Lord Tennyson expressed in a 
poem 100 years ago took visible form over London in the air blitzes of 
1941. In fact all of our civilized world is the resultant of man's 
projection of his imagination over the past 60 centuries or more. It 
is in this one aspect, at least, that man seems to be made in the image 
of his Creator.   Not only can man project his imagination 
out into his environment in concrete forms, but even more importantly, 
he can turn it inward to help create new and better forms of himself. 
We recognize that young people through imaginative mind and body training 
can become athletes, acrobats, dancers, musicians and artists, developing 
many potentialities. We know that actors can learn to portray 
a wide variety of character roles. By this same combination of the 
will and the imagination, each one of us can learn to portray permanently 
the kind of character we would like to be. We must realize with 
Prof& Charles Morris in his THE OPEN SELF that "Man is the 
being that can continually remake himself, the artisan that is himself 
the material for his own creation". ##

{S}o far in 
history man 
has been too greatly over-occupied with projecting things into his environment 
rather than first creating the sort of person who can make 
the highest use of the things he has created. Is not the present world 
crisis a race between things we have created which can now destroy us 
and between populations of sufficient wisdom and character to forestall 
the tragedy. Is it not the obligation of us older citizens to lend 
our weight to being creative on the character side and to hasten our 
own maturing process?   Sir Julian Huxley in his book UNIQUENESS 
OF MAN makes the novel point that just as man is unique in 
being the only animal which requires a long period of infancy and childhood 
under family protection, so is he the only animal who has a long 
period after the decline of his procreativity.

SOME recent writings assume that the ignorant young couples 
are a thing of the remote, Victorian past; that nowadays all honeymooners 
are thoroughly familiar with the best sex-manuals and know enough 
from talk with friends and personal experimentation to take all 
the anxiety and hazards out of the situation.   Perhaps- but extensive 
discussions with contemporary practitioners, family doctors and 
gynecologists indicate that this is still an area of enormous ignorance. 
Joking and talking may be freer and easier, but the important factual 
information is still lacking for far too many newly-married men 
and women.   Various factors in the setting can still be of great 
advantage in making the first intercourse a good rather than a bad 
memory for one or both. Privacy must be highly assured both in time and 
place. That is, locking the room or stateroom door gives privacy of 
location, but it is equally important to be sure there is time enough 
for an utterly unhurried fulfillment.   If the wedding party lasted 
late, and the travel schedule means there are only a few hours before 
resuming the trip or making an early start, the husband may forestall 
tensions and uncertainties by confiding to his bride that lying 
in each other's arms will be bliss enough for these few hours. The 
consummation should come at the next stopping place when they have a long 
private time (day or night) for that purpose. ##

First intercourse 
for the bride brings with it the various problems connected 
with virginity and the hymen.   <One thing should be clear to 
both husband and wife- neither pain nor profuse bleeding has to occur 
when the hymen is ruptured during the first sex act. Ignorance on this 
point has caused a great deal of needless anxiety, misunderstanding 
and suspicion>.   The hymen is, in essence, a fragile membrane 
that more or less completely covers the entrance to the vagina in most 
female human beings who have not had sex relations. (Hymen, in fact, 
is the Greek word for membrane.)   Often it is thin and fragile 
and gives way readily to the male organ at the first attempt at intercourse. 
As might be expected, girls in this situation bleed very little 
and perhaps not at all in the process of losing their virginity.

It is also important to realize that many girls are born without 
a hymen or at most only a tiny trace of one; so that <the absence 
of the hymen is by no means positive proof that a girl has had sex 
relations>.   But there is a basis in fact for the exaggerations 
of the folk-lore beliefs. Some hymens are so strongly developed that 
they cannot be torn without considerable pain to the girl and marked 
loss of blood. More rarely, the hymen is so sturdy that it does not 
yield to penetration.   Extreme cases are on record in which the 
doctor 
has had to use instruments to cut through the hymen to permit marital 
relations to be consummated. These cases, for all their rarity, are 
so dramatic that friends and relations repeat the story until the general 
population may get an entirely false notion of how often the hymen 
is a serious problem to newly-weds. 
##

In recent times, when sexual 
matters began to be discussed more scientifically and more openly, 
the emotional aspects of virginity received considerable attention. 
Obviously, the bridal pair has many adjustments to make to their new 
situation. Is it necessary to add to the other tensions the hazard of 
making the loving husband the one who brought pain to his bride?

<Gynecologists and marriage manuals began to advise that the bride 
should consult a physician before marriage. If he foresaw any problem 
because of the quality of the hymen, it was recommended that simple 
procedures be undertaken at once to incise the hymen or, preferably, 
to dilate it>.   As a natural outgrowth of this approach it was 
often suggested that the doctor should complete the preparation for 
painless intercourse by dilating the vagina.   This recommendation 
was based on the fact that the hymen was not the only barrier to smooth 
consummation of the sex act. The vagina is an organ capable of 
remarkable contraction and dilation. This is obvious when it is remembered 
that, during childbirth, the vagina must dilate enough to permit 
the passage of the baby.   The intricate system of muscles that 
manage the contraction and dilatation of the vagina are partly under 
voluntary control. But an instinctive reflex may work against the conscious 
intention of the woman. That is, when first penetration takes 
place, the pressure and pain signals may <involuntarily> cause all the 
vaginal muscles to contract in an effort to bar the intrusion and prevent 
further pain. ##

The advantages 
of dilatation by the physician 
are both physical and psychological. Since it is a purely professional 
situation, none of the pain is associated with love-making or the 
beloved. By using instruments of gradually increasing size, the vagina 
is gently, and with minimum pain at each stage, taught to yield to 
an object of the appropriate shape.   In this process the vaginal 
muscles come under better conscious control by the girl. She learns 
how to relax them to <accept>- instead of contracting them to <repel> 
the entering object.   Apart from the standard problem of 
controlling the vaginal muscles, other serious barriers may exist that 
need special gynecological treatment. It is far better to have such 
conditions treated in advance than to have them show up on the honeymoon 
where they can create a really serious situation.   When no 
medical problems exist, the newly married couple generally prefer to 
cope with the adjustments of their new relationship by themselves. Special 
information and guidance about the possible difficulties are still 
of great value. Folk-lore, superstition and remembered passages from 
erotic literature can create physical and emotional problems if blindly 
taken as scientific facts and useful hints. ##

<The importance 
of loving tenderness is obvious. The long, unhurried approach and 
the deliberate prolongation of fore-play work on several levels. Under 
the excitement of caresses and sexual stimulation the vagina relaxes 
and dilates and the local moisture greatly increases, providing an excellent 
lubricant to help achieve an easier penetration>.   Extensive 
observations by physicians during vaginal examinations have established 
the fact that a single finger inserted along the anterior wall 
(the top line of the vagina as the woman lies on her back) may cause 
a great deal of distress in a virgin. <But> during the same examination, 
<two> fingers may be inserted along the posterior wall (the 
bottom of the vagina in the same position) without any pain; and in 
fact without any difficulty <if the pressure is kept downward at all 
times>.   These regional differences of sensitivity to pain may 
be of crucial significance during the earliest intercourse. The husband 
and wife should start with this anatomical information clearly in 
mind. They may then adjust their positions and movements to avoid too 
much pressure on the urethra and the anterior wall of the vagina; at 
least until repeated intercourse has dilated it and pain is no longer 
a possible threat against the full pleasure of love-making.   In 
fact, the technical procedure in medical examinations may be wisely 
adapted to his romantic purposes by the husband during the honeymoon.

Locker-room talk often stresses the idea that a man is doing 
the girl a favor if he is forceful and ruthless during the first penetration. 
The false reasoning is that a gradual advance prolongs the pain 
while a swift powerful act gets it over with and leaves the girl pleased 
with his virility and grateful for his decisiveness in settling 
the problem once and for all.   <Such talk is seriously in error. 
Ruthlessness at this time can be a very severe shock to the bride, 
both physically and psychologically. The insistent, forceful penetration 
may tear and inflame the vaginal walls as well as do excessive damage 
to the hymen>.   <The pain and distress associated with 
the performance may easily give the wife a deep-seated dread of marital 
relations and cause her, unconsciously, to make the sex act unpleasant 
and difficult for both by exercising her vaginal muscles to complicate 
his penetration instead of relaxing them to facilitate it>. ## 

Serious attention must also be given to the husband's problems in 
the honeymoon situation. The necessity for keeping alert to his bride's 
hazards can act as an interference with the man's spontaneous 
desire. The emotional stimulation may be so great that he may experience 
a premature climax. This is a very common experience and should in 
no way discourage or dishearten either husband or wife.   Or the 
frequent need to check and discipline himself to the wisest pace of 
the consummation can put him off stride and make it impossible for him 
to be continuously ready for penetration over a long period. The signals 
to proceed may therefore come when he is momentarily not able to 
take advantage of them.   The best course is to recover his physical 
excitement by a change of pace that makes him ardent again. This 
may require imagination and reminding himself that now he can be demanding 
and self-centered. He can take security from the fact that the 
progress he has made by his gentle approach will not be lost. 
Now while he uses talk, caresses or requires caresses from her, his bride 
will sympathetically understand the situation and eagerly help him 
restore his physical situation so they can have the consummation they 
both so eagerly desire.   A final word. The accumulated information 
on this point shows that first intercourse, even when it is achieved 
with minimum pain or difficulty, is seldom an overwhelming sexual 
experience to a woman. Too many new things are happening for it to 
be a complete erotic fulfillment.   Only under rare circumstances 
would a bride experience an orgasm during her first intercourse. Both 
man and wife should be aware of the fact that a lack of climax, and 
even the absence of the anticipated keen pleasure are not a sign that 
the wife may be cold or frigid.   If the early approaches are wise, 
understanding and patient, the satisfactions of marital fulfillment 
will probably be discovered before the marriage is much older.

WRITING in a large volume on the nude in painting and sculptures, 
titled <The Nude: A Study in Ideal Form,> Kenneth 
Clark declares: "**h The human body, as a nucleus, is rich in associations. 
**h It is ourselves and arouses memories of all the things 
we wish to do with ourselves".   Perhaps this is a clue to 
the amazing variety and power of reactions, attitudes, and emotions precipitated 
by the nude form.   The wide divergence of reactions 
is clearly illustrated in the Kinsey studies in human sexuality. 
Differences were related to social, economic, and educational backgrounds. 
Whereas persons of eighth grade education or less were more apt 
to avoid or be shocked by nudity, those educated beyond the eighth 
grade increasingly welcomed and approved nudity in sexual relations.

Such understanding helps to explain why one matron celebrating 
thirty-five years of married life could declare with some pride that 
her husband had "never seen her entirely naked", while another woman, 
boasting an equal number of years of married life, is proud of having 
"shared the nudist way of life- the really free, natural nude 
life- for most of that period".   Attempts at censorship always 
involve and reveal such complex and multiple individual reactions. 
The indignant crusader sees the nude or semi-nude 
human form as "lewd 
and pornographic, a threat and danger" to all the young, or good, 
or religious, or moral persons.   The equally ardent proponent 
of 
freedom from any kind of censorship may find the nude human form the 
"natural, honest, free expression of man's spirit and the epitome 
of beauty and inspiration".   One is always a little surprised 
to bump into such individual distinctions when it is unexpected. I 
still recall the mild shock I experienced in reading material of an enthusiastic 
advocate of the "clean, healthful, free way of natural life 
in nudism", who seemed to brave much misunderstanding and persecution 
in fine spirit.

@ IN TRADITION and in poetry, the marriage bed is a place 
of unity and harmony. The partners each bring to it unselfish love, 
and each takes away an equal share of pleasure and joy.   At its 
most ecstatic moments, husband and wife are elevated far above worldly 
cares. Everything else is closed away.   This is the ideal. 
But marriage experts say that such mutual contribution and mutual joy 
are seldom achieved. Instead one partner or the other dominates the 
sexual relationship. In the past, it has been the husband who has been 
dominant and the wife passive. But today there are signs that these 
roles are being reversed.   In a growing number of American homes, 
marriage counselors report, the wife is taking a commanding role 
in sexual relationships. It is she who decides the time, the place, 
the surroundings, and the frequency of the sexual act. It is she who 
says aye or nay to the intimate questions of sexual technique and mechanics- 
not the husband. The whole act is tailored to <her> pleasure, 
and not to <theirs>.   Beyond a certain point, of course, 
no woman can be dominant- nature has seen to that. But there is little 
doubt that in many marriages the wife is boss of the marital bed.

Of course, there remain many "old-fashioned" marriages in 
which the husband maintains his supremacy. Yet even in these marriages, 
psychologists say, wives are asserting themselves more strongly. The 
meekest, most submissive wife of today is a tiger by her mother's 
or grandmother's standards.   To many experts, this trend was 
inevitable. They consider it simply a sign of our times. Our society 
has "emancipated" the woman, giving her new independence and new 
authority. It is only natural that she assert herself in the sexual 
role.   "The sexual relationship does not exist in a vacuum", 
declares Dr& Mary Steichen Calderone, medical director of the 
Planned Parenthood Federation of America and author of the recent 
book, <Release From Sexual Tensions>. "It reflects what is going 
on in other areas of the marriage and in society itself. A world 
in which wives have taken a more active role is likely to produce sexual 
relationships in which wives are more self-assertive, too".

Yet many psychologists and marriage counselors agree that domination 
of the sex relationship by one partner or the other can be unhealthy 
and even dangerous. It can, in fact, wreck a marriage.   When 
a husband is sexually selfish and heedless of his wife's desires, she 
is cheated of the fulfillment and pleasure nature intended for her. 
And she begins to regard him as savage, bestial and unworthy. 
On the other hand, wifely supremacy demeans the husband, saps his self-respect, 
and robs him of his masculinity. He is a target of ridicule 
to his wife, and often- since private affairs rarely remain private- 
to the outside world as well.   "A marriage can survive almost 
any kind of stress except an open and direct challenge to the husband's 
maleness", declares Dr& Calderone. This opinion is supported 
by one of the nation's leading psychiatrists, Dr& Maurice 
E& Linden, director of the Mental Health Division of the Philadelphia 
Department of Public Health.   "When the roles of 
husband and wife are reversed, so that the wife becomes leader and the 
husband follower", Dr& Linden says, "the effects on their whole 
relationship, sexual and otherwise, can be disastrous". ## 

IN ONE EXTREME case, cited by a Pittsburgh psychologist, an office 
worker's wife refused to have sexual relations with her husband 
unless he bought her the luxuries she demanded. To win her favors, her 
husband first took an additional job, then desperately began to embezzle 
from his employer. Caught at last, he was sentenced to prison. While 
he was in custody his wife divorced him.   More typical is 
the case of a suburban Long Island housewife described by a marriage 
counselor. This woman repeatedly complained she was "too tired" 
for marital relations. To please her, her husband assumed some of the 
domestic chores. Finally, he was cooking, washing dishes, bathing the 
children, and even ironing- and still his wife refused to have relations 
as often as he desired them.   One wife, described by a 
New York psychologist, so dominated her husband that she actually placed 
their sexual relationship on a schedule, writing it down right between 
the weekly ~PTA meetings and the Thursday-night neighborhood 
card parties. Another put sex on a dollars-and-cents basis. After 
every money argument, she rebuffed her husband's overtures until the 
matter was settled in her favor.   Experts say the partners in 
marriages like these can almost be typed.   The wife is likely 
to be young, sophisticated, smart as a whip- often a girl who has sacrificed 
a promising career for marriage. She knows the power of the 
sex urge and how to use it to manipulate her husband.   The husband 
is usually a well-educated professional, preoccupied with his job- 
often an organization man whose motto for getting ahead is: "Don't 
rock the boat".   Sometimes this leads to his becoming 
demandingly dominant in marriage. Hemmed in on the job and unable to 
assert himself, he uses the sex act so he can be supreme in at least one 
area.   More often, though, he is so accustomed to submitting 
to authority on the job without argument that he lives by the same rule 
at home.   Some psychologists, in fact, suggest that career-bound 
husbands often are more to blame for topsy-turvy marriages than their 
wives. The wife's attempt at control, these psychologists contend, 
is sometimes merely a pathetic effort to compel her husband to pay 
as much attention to her as he does to his job.   Naturally no 
woman can ever completely monopolize the sexual initiative. Unless her 
husband also desires sex, the act cannot be consummated. Generally, 
however, in such marriages as those cited, the husband is at his wife's 
mercy.   "The pattern", says Dr& Morton 
Schillinger, 
psychologist at New York's Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy, 
"is for the husband to hover about anxiously and eagerly, virtually 
trembling in his hope that she will flash him the signal that tonight 
is the night".   No one seriously contends, of course, that 
the domineering wife is, sexually speaking, a new character in our world. 
After all, the henpecked husband with his shrewish wife is a comic 
figure of long standing, in literature and on the stage, as Dr& Schillinger 
points out. There is no evidence that these Milquetoasts 
became suddenly emboldened when they crossed the threshhold of the master 
bedroom. ##

FURTHERMORE, Dr& Calderone says, a certain 
number of docile, retiring men always have been around. They aren't 
"frigid" and they aren't homosexual; they're just restrained 
in all of life. They <like> to be dominated. One such man once 
confided to Dr& Theodor Reik, New York psychiatrist, that he 
preferred to have his wife the sexual aggressor. Asked why, he replied 
primly: "Because that's no activity for a gentleman".

But such cases were, in the past, unusual. Society here and abroad 
has been built around the dominating male- even the Bible appears 
to endorse the concept.   Family survival on our own Western frontier, 
for example, could quite literally depend on a man's strength 
and ability to bring home the bacon; and the dependent wife seldom 
questioned his judgment about anything, including the marriage bed.

This carried over into the more urbanized late 19th and early 
20th centuries, when the man ruled the roost in the best bull-roaring 
<Life With Father> manner.   In those days, a wife had mighty 
few rights in the domestic sphere and even fewer in the sexual sphere. 
"Grandma wasn't expected to like it", Dr& Marion Hilliard, 
the late Toronto gynecologist, once summed up the attitude of the 
'90s. Wives of the period shamefacedly thought of themselves as 
"used" by their husbands- and, history indicates, they often quite 
literally were.   When was the turning point? When did women 
begin to assert themselves sexually? ##

SOME DATE IT from 
woman suffrage, others from when women first began to challenge men 
in the marketplace, still others from the era of the emancipated flapper 
and bathtub gin. Virtually everyone agrees, however, that the trend 
toward female sexual aggressiveness was tremendously accelerated with 
the postwar rush to the suburbs.   Left alone while her husband 
was miles away in the city, the modern wife assumed more and more duties 
normally reserved for the male. Circumstances gave her almost undisputed 
sway over child-rearing, money-handling and home maintenance. 
She found she could cope with all kinds of problems for which she was 
once considered too helpless. She liked this taste of authority and 
independence, and, with darkness, was not likely to give it up.

"Very few wives", says Dr& Calderone, "who balance the checkbook, 
fix the car, choose where the family will live and deal with 
the tradesmen, are suddenly going to become submissive where sex is concerned. 
A woman who dominates other family affairs will dominate the 
sexual relationship as well".   And an additional factor was 
helping to make women more sexually self-assertive- the comparatively 
recent discovery of the true depths of female desire and response. 
Marriage manuals and women's magazine articles began to stress the 
importance of the female climax. They began to describe in detail the 
woman's capacity for response.   In fact, the noted psychologist 
and sex researcher, Dr& Albert Ellis, has declared flatly that 
women are "sexually superior" to men. According to Dr& Ellis, 
the average 20-year-old American woman is capable of far greater sexual 
arousal than her partner. Not surprisingly, Dr& Ellis says, 
some recently enlightened wives are out to claim these capabilities.

Yet, paradoxically, according to Dr& Maurice Linden, many 
wives despise their husbands for not standing up to them. An aggressive 
woman wants a man to demand, not knuckle under. "When the husband 
becomes passive in the face of his wife's aggressiveness", Dr& 
Linden says, "the wife, in turn, finds him inadequate. Often she 
fails to gain sexual satisfaction".   One such wife, Dr& 
Linden says, became disgusted with her weak husband and flurried through 
a series of extramarital affairs in the hope of finding a stronger 
man. But her personality was such that each affair lasted only until 
that lover, too, had been conquered and reduced to passivity. Then the 
wife bed-hopped to the next on the list.   In some cases, however, 
domination of the sex act by one partner can be temporary, triggered 
by a passing but urgent emotional need. Thus a man who is butting 
a stone wall at the office may become unusually aggressive in bed- 
the one place he can still be champion. If his on-the-job problems work 
out, he may return to his old pattern. Sometimes a burst of aggressiveness 
will sweep over a man- or his wife- because he or she feels 
age creeping up.   On the other hand, a husband who always has 
been vigorous and assertive may suddenly become passive- asking, 
psychologists say, for reassurance that his wife still finds him desirable. 
Or a wife may make sudden demands that she be courted, flattered 
or coaxed, simply because she needs her ego lifted.   In any case, 
Dr& Calderone remarks, such problems are a couple's own affair, 
and can't always be measured by a general yardstick. "As long 
as the couple is in agreement in their approach to sex, it makes little 
difference if one or the other dominates", Dr& Calderone declares. 
"The important point is that both be satisfied with the adjustment".

Other experts say, however, that if sexual domination 
by one or the other partner exists for longer than a brief period, 
it is likely to shake the marriage. And just as domination today often 
begins with the wife, so the cure generally must lie with the husband.

"To get a marriage back where it belongs", comments Dr& 
Schillinger of the Lincoln Institute, "the husband must take 
some very basic steps. He must begin, paradoxically, by becoming more 
selfish. He must become more expressive of his own desires, more demanding 
and less 'understanding'".   Too many husbands, Dr& 
Schillinger continues, worry about "how well they're doing", 
and fear that their success depends on some trick or technique of sexual 
play. 
##

SHE GAVE HERSELF a title **h Lady Diana Harrington.

The New York D&A& gave her another **h the Golden Girl 
of cafe society.   Houston police gave her a third, less flamboyant, 
title **h prostitute.   And Houston police have the final 
say in the matter since she died there on September 20, 1960, "Diane 
Harris Graham, 30, D&O&A& circumstances- unusual".

Early in her life she had discovered that where there were men, 
there was money, and with the two came luxury and liquor. She was still 
in the play for pay business when she died, a top trollop who had 
given the world's oldest profession one of its rare flashes of glamour.

She never hid the fact that she liked to play. Her neighbors 
in the expensive Houston apartment building told reporters that 
the ash-blonde beauty had talked at times about her past as 
"the Golden 
Girl of the Mickey Jelke trial".   It was the trial of 
oleomargarine heir Minot (Mickey) Jelke for compulsory prostitution 
in New York that put the spotlight on the international play-girl. 
(Jelke later served 21 months when he was found guilty of masterminding 
a ring of high-priced call girls.)   Diane was needed as a material 
witness in the case and New York police searched three continents 
before they found her in their own back yard- in a swank hotel, 
of course. She had been moving in cafe society as Lady Diana Harrington, 
a name that made some of the gossip columns.   It was when 
she was seized as a material witness that she got the designation 
she liked best.   Clad in mink and diamonds, she listened to Assistant 
District Attorney Anthony Liebler describe her to the arraigning 
judge:   "This girl is the Golden Girl of cafe society.

"In 1951 she was a prostitute in New York County. In 
the spring and early summer of that year she met a wealthy foreign 
tycoon who took her to France, where she later met a very wealthy man 
and toured all Europe with him.   "At Deauville she met an 
Egyptian by the name of Pulley Bey. He was the official procurer for 
King Farouk, now in exile. She was in Egypt during the revolution 
and had passport difficulty. She lied in order to get it.   "We 
have checked her in different parts of Europe and Egypt and finally 
back into this country **h She has been acting as a prostitute.

"Our information is that she gave the proceeds of her acts 
to Jelke".   Diane sobbingly denied this to the court. 
"That's a lie. I never gave that boy a cent. I am not a prostitute, 
and I had only one very wealthy boy friend", she said. 
During the course of the trial, Jelke backed up part of that statement.

"Diane is the type of girl", Jelke said, "who wouldn't 
get loving- even on her wedding night- unless you piled up 
all your money in the middle of the floor".   But she seemed to 
have underestimated the number of her "boy friends".   She 
came to New York from Detroit as a teenager, but with a "sponsor" 
instead of a chaperone. As she told it, "He's a rich boy friend, 
an old guy about 60". She was Mary Lou Brew then, wide-eyed, 
but not naive. She had talked her "boy friend" into sending her 
to New York to take a screen test.

The screen test was never made- but Diane was. She quickly 
moved into cafe society, possibly easing her conscience by talking 
constantly of her desire to be in show business.   She seemed 
so anxious to go on the stage that some of her friends in the cocktail 
circuit set up a practical joke.   An ex-fighter was introduced 
to her in a bar as "Mr& Warfield, the famous producer". The 
phony producer asked her if she would like to be in one of his shows.

"I'd love to audition for you", she gushed.   The 
audition was held a few minutes later in somebody's apartment. She 
thought she had great possibilities in the ballet and wanted to show 
the eminent producer how well she could dance.   After a few minutes 
he said, "I can't use you if you dance like that. I'd like 
to see you dance nude".   She hastily complied. Diane loved 
to dance in the nude, something she was to demonstrate time and again.

She developed another quaint habit. Even among the fast set 
in which she was moving, her method for keeping an escort from departing 
too early was unique.   When the date would try to bid her 
good-night at the door, she would tell him, "If you go home now, I'll 
scream". More often than not he would bow to the inevitable.

One who needed no such threats was a French financier. One of 
the blonde's yearnings that he satisfied was for travel. She wanted 
to go around the world, but she settled for a French holiday.

In an anonymous interview with a French newspaper the financier told 
of spending several months with her. "Then she went to Deauville 
where she met a member of a powerful Greek syndicate of gamblers".

The Greek evidently fell for her, "Monsieur ~X" recounted, 
and to clinch what he thought was an affair in the making he 
gave her 100,000 francs (about $300) and led her to the roulette tables.

She could do no wrong at the tables that time. And in short 
order the croupier had pushed several million francs her way. Smarter 
than most gamblers, she slipped away from the casino, packed her bag 
and took the night train to Paris. No one ever learned what happened 
to the Greek.   The luxury of Paris' most fashionable hotel, 
the George /5,, bored the beautifully-built blonde, so she high-tailed 
it to Rome.   She teamed up with another beauty, whose 
name has been lost to history, and commenced with some fiddling that 
would have made Nero envious.   To climax her Roman revels, she 
was thrown out of the swanky Hotel Excelsior after she had run naked 
through its marble halls screaming for help.   It was a rugged 
finish for what must have been a very interesting night.   Discreet 
Italian police described it in a manner typically continental.

"There had been a threesome at the party in the suite's bedroom: 
Miss Harrington (this was Diane's choice for a Roman name), 
another woman who has figured in other very interesting events and 
one of your well-known American actors.   "The actor had had 
much to drink and apparently became very violent. The hotel staff, 
as well as residents of the Excelsior, told us they saw that both ladies 
were bleeding from scratches as they were seen fleeing down the hall.

"They were wearing nothing but their scratches. They were 
asked to leave the hotel. No charges were filed".   The girls, 
after dressing, were indignant.   "You can't do this to 
us", Diane screamed. "We are Americans".   In the morning 
she found rooms directly across from the Excelsior at the equally 
luxurious Hotel Ambassador.   With the Ambassador as headquarters, 
she continued to promote good will abroad. Of course, her benevolence 
was limited to those who could afford it, but then there is a 
limit to what one person can do.   By this time Diane was a beguiling 
lass of 19 and still seeking her place in the world. She thought 
royal status might come her way when, while she was still in Rome, 
she met Pulley Bey, a personal procurer to King Farouk of Egypt.

A close friend of hers in the Roman days described it this 
way:   "It was a strange relationship. Pulley Bey spoke no 
English. Diane spoke no Italian or French. She had a hard time 
making him understand that it was Farouk she wished to meet.   "Pulley 
Bey insisted that she bestow her favors on him", the friend 
continued. It seemed as though she were always auditioning. 
No believer in the traditional devotion of royal servitors, the plump 
Pulley broke the language barrier and lured her to Cairo where she 
waited for nine months, vainly hoping to see Farouk.   Pulley 
had set her up at the Semiramis Hotel, but she grew impatient waiting 
for a royal reception and moved to a luxurious apartment to which the 
royal pimp had no key.   She picked her own Middle-Eastern friends 
from the flock of ardent Egyptians that buzzed around her. Tewfik 
Badrawi, Mohammed Gaafer and numerous other wealthy members of 
Cairo society enjoyed her company.   "So extensive became her 
circle of admirers", Egyptian police said, "that her escapades 
caused distrust".   The roof was about ready to fall in on Diane's 
little world, but it took nothing less than the Egyptian revolution 
to bring it down. When Farouk was overthrown, police picked up 
his personal pimp, Pulley Bey. They also called upon Diane with 
a request for a look at her passport.   The cagey Pulley Bey, 
who spoke no English, had taken the passport so that Diane 
couldn't 
leave the country without his approval. Officials provided a temporary 
passport, good only for return to the United States.   And 
return to the United States she did, into waiting arms- the unromantic 
ones of the New York District Attorney's office.   Held 
as a material witness in the compulsory prostitution trial of Mickey 
Jelke, the comely courtesan was unable to raise bail and was committed 
to the Women's House of Detention, a terribly overcrowded prison.

It is a tribute to her talents that she was able to talk 
the District Attorney into having her removed from the prison to a 
hotel room, with her meals taken at Vesuvio's, an excellent Italian 
restaurant.   Newspapers at the time noted that the move indicated 
that she was co-operating with the District Attorney.   With 
the end of the trial Diane disappeared from New York **h it was 
no longer fashionable to be seen with fabulous "Lady Harrington".

Several years ago she married a Houston business man, Robert 
Graham. She later divorced Graham, who is believed to have moved 
to Bolivia.   Houston police got to know Diane two years ago 
when the vice squad picked her up for questioning about a call girl ring. 
Last May, they said, she admitted being a prostitute.   The 
next time the police saw her she was dead.   It was September 
20, 1960, in a lavishly decorated apartment littered with liquor bottles. 
She had had a party with a regular visitor, Dr& William W& 
McClellan.   McClellan, who had once lost his medical license 
temporarily on a charge of drug addiction, was with her when she died. 
He had been in the apartment two days and was hazy about what had 
happened during that time. When he realized she was dead, he called 
two lawyers and then the police.   When the police arrived, they 
found McClellan and the two lawyers sitting and staring silently.

The blonde's nude body was in bed, a green sheet and a pink 
blanket covered her. Pictures of her in more glamorous days were on the 
walls.   An autopsy disclosed a large amount of morphine in Diane's 
body. Police theorize that a combination of dope, drink and 
drugs killed her.   "I think that maybe she wanted it this way", 
a vice squad cop said. "A maid told us that she still bragged 
about getting $50 a date. She was on the junk, and they slide fast when 
that happens. At least she never knew what the bottom was 
like". 
I AM a carpet salesman.   I work for one of the biggest chains 
of retail carpet houses in the East. We cater mostly to nice people 
in the $5-8,000 annual income bracket and we run a string of snazzy, 
neon-lit, chromium-plated suburban stores.   I am selling the 
stuff of which is made one of the Great American Dreams- <wall-to-wall 
carpeting>.   There is only one trouble with this big, 
beautiful dream. From where I sit it looks more like a nightmare.

People come to me with confidence. They depend on my supposedly 
expert knowledge of a trade of which they themselves know little.

But I knowingly abuse their confidence. 
FRANKLIN D& Lee proved a man of prompt action when Mrs& 
Claire Shaefer, accompanied by a friend, visited him in Bakersfield, 
California, several months ago as a prospective patient. "Doctor" 
Lee asked her to lie down on a bed and remove her shoes. Then, 
by squeezing her foot three times, he came up- presto- with a 
different diagnosis with each squeeze. She had- he informed her- 
kidney trouble, liver trouble, and a severe female disorder. (He explained 
that he could diagnose these ailments from squeezing her foot because 
all of the nervous system was connected to it.) He knew just the 
thing for her- a treatment from his "cosmic light ozone generator" 
machine.   As he applied the applicator extending from the 
machine- which consisted of seven differently colored neon tubes superimposed 
on a rectangular base- to the supposedly diseased portions 
of Mrs& Shaefer's body, Lee kept up a steady stream of pseudo-scientific 
mumbo-jumbo. Yes, the ozone from his machine would cure practically 
everything, he assured her. Did she know, he asked, why the 
colors of the tubes were important to people's health? The human 
body- he pointed out, for example- required 33 units of blue light. 
For that reason, he informed her, the Lord made the sky blue. Continuing 
glibly in this vein, he paused to comfort her:   "Don't 
you worry. This machine will cure your cancer-ridden body".

"Cancer"! Mrs& Shaefer practically shrieked. "You 
didn't tell me I had cancer".   "You have it, all right. 
But as long as you can have treatment from my machine you have nothing 
to worry about. Why, I once used this machine to cure a woman with 
97 pounds of cancer in her body".   He urged her to buy one 
of his machines- for $300. When she said that she didn't have the 
money, he said that she could come in for treatment with his office 
model until she was ready to buy one. He then sold her minerals to cure 
her kidney ailment, a can of sage "to make her look like a girl again", 
and an application of plain mud to take her wrinkles away.

Lee renewed his pressure on Mrs& Shaefer to buy his machine 
when she visited him the next day. After another treatment with the machine, 
he told her that "her entire body was shot through with tumors 
and cysts". He then sold her some capsules that he asserted would 
take care of the tumors and cysts until she could collect the money 
for buying his machine.   When she submitted to his treatment with 
the capsules, Mrs& Shaefer felt intense pain. Leaving Lee's 
office, Mrs& Shaefer hurried over to her family physician, who treated 
her for burned tissue. For several days, she was ill as a result 
of Lee's treatment.   Mrs& Shaefer never got around to 
joining the thousand or so people who paid Lee some $30,000 for his ozone 
machines. For Mrs& Shaefer- who had been given a clean bill 
of health by her own physician at the time she visited Lee- and her 
friend were agents for the California Pure Food and Drug Inspection 
Bureau. And she felt amply rewarded for her suffering when the 
evidence of Lee's quack shenanigans, gathered by the tape recorder 
under her friend's clothing, proved adequate in court for convicting 
Franklin D& Lee. The charge: violation of the California Medical 
Practices Act by practicing medicine without a license and selling 
misbranded drugs. The sentence: 360 days' confinement in the 
county jail.   An isolated case of quackery? By no means. Rather, 
it is typical of the thousands of quacks who use phony therapeutic 
devices to fatten themselves on the miseries of hundreds of thousands 
of Americans by robbing them of millions of dollars and luring them 
away from legitimate, ethical medical treatment of serious diseases. 
The machine quack makes his Rube Goldberg devices out of odds and 
ends of metals, wires, and radio parts.   With these gadgets- 
impressive to the gullible because of their flashing light bulbs, ticks, 
and buzzes- he then carries out a vicious medical con game, capitalizing 
on people's respect for the electrical and atomic wonders of 
our scientific age. He milks the latest scientific advances, translating 
them into his own special Buck Rogers vocabulary to huckster his 
fake machines as a cure-all for everything from hay fever to sexual 
impotence and cancer.   The gadget faker operates or sells his 
phony machines for $5 to $10,000- 
anything the traffic will bear. He 
may call himself a naprapath, a physiotherapist, an electrotherapist, 
a naturopath, a sanipractor, a medical cultist, a masseur, a "doctor"- 
or what have you. Not only do these quacks assume impressive 
titles, but represent themselves as being associated with various scientific 
or impressive foundations- 
foundations which often have little 
more than a letterhead existence.   The medical device pirate 
of today, of course, is a far more sophisticated operator than his predecessor 
of yesteryear- the gallus-snapping hawker of snake oil and 
other patent medicines. His plunder is therefore far higher- running 
into hundreds of millions.   According to the Food and Drug 
Administration (~FDA), "Doctor" Ghadiali, Dr& Albert 
Abrams and his clique, and Dr& Wilhelm Reich- to name three notorious 
device quacks- succeeded, respectively, in distributing 10,000, 
5000, and 2000 fake health machines.   Authorities believe 
that many of the Doctor Frauds using these false health gadgets are 
still in business. Look at the sums paid by two device quack victims 
in Cleveland. Sarah Gross, a dress shop proprietor, paid $1020 to 
a masseur, and Mr& A&, a laborer, paid $4200 to a chiropractor for 
treatment with two fake health machines- the "radioclast" and 
the "diagnometer". Multiply these figures by the millions of people 
known to be conned by medical pirates annually. You will come up 
with a frightening total.   That's why the ~FDA, the American 
Medical Association (~AMA), and the National Better Business 
Bureau (~BBB) have estimated the toll of mechanical quackery 
to be a substantial portion of the $610 million or so paid to medical 
charlatans annually.   The Postmaster General recently reported 
that mail order frauds- among which fake therapeutic devices 
figure prominently- are at the highest level in history. Similarly, 
the American Cancer Society (~ACS), the Arthritis and Rheumatism 
Foundation, and the ~BBB have each stated lately that medical 
quackery is at a new high. For example, the ~BBB has reported 
it was receiving four times as many inquiries about quack devices and 
10 times as many complaints compared with two years ago.   Authorities 
hesitate to quote exact figures, however, believing that any 
sum they come up with is only a surface manifestation- turned up by 
their inevitably limited policing- of the real loot of the medical 
racketeer. In this sense, authorities believe that all estimates of phony 
device quackery are conservative.   The economic toll that 
the device quack extracts is important, of course. But it is our health- 
more precious than all the money in the world- that these modern 
witch doctors with their fake therapeutic gadgets are gambling away. 
By preying on the sick, by playing callously on the hopes of the desperate, 
by causing the sufferer to delay proper medical care, these medical 
ghouls create pain and misery by their very activity.   Typically, 
Sarah Gross and Mr& ~A both lost more than their money 
as the result of their experiences with their Cleveland quacks. Sarah 
Gross found that the treatments given her for a nervous ailment 
by the masseur were not helping her. As a result, she consulted medical 
authorities and learned that the devices her quack "doctor" was 
using were phony. She suffered a nervous breakdown and had to be 
institutionalized.

Mr& A&, her fellow townsman, also experienced 
a nervous breakdown just as soon as he discovered that he had been 
bilked of his life savings by the limited practitioner who had been 
treating his wife- a woman suffering from an incurable disease, multiple 
sclerosis- and himself. Mr& ~A has recovered, but he is, 
justifiably, a bitter man. "That's a lot of hard-earned money to 
lose", he says today. "Neither me nor my wife were helped by that 
chiropractor's treatments".   And there was the case of Tom 
Hepker, a machinist, who was referred by a friend to a health machine 
quack who treated him with a so-called diagnostic machine for what 
Doctor Fraud said was a system full of arsenic and strychnine. After 
his pains got worse, Tom decided to see a real doctor, from whom he 
learned he was suffering from cancer of the lung. Yes, Tom caught 
it in time to stay alive. But he's a welfare case now- a human wreck- 
thanks to this modern witch doctor.   But the machine quack 
can cause far more than just suffering. In such diseases as cancer, 
tuberculosis, and heart disease, early diagnosis and treatment are so 
vital that the waste of time by the patient with Doctor Fraud's 
cure-all gadget can prove fatal. Moreover, the diabetic patient who relies 
on cure by the quack device and therefore cuts off his insulin intake 
can be committing suicide. For instance:   In Chicago, 
some time ago, Mr& H&, age 27, a diabetic since he was six, stopped 
using 
insulin because he had bought a "magic spike"- a glass tube 
about the size of a pencil filled with barium chloride worth a small 
fraction of a cent- sold by the Vrilium Company of Chicago for $306 
as a cure-all. "Hang this around your neck or attach it to other 
parts of your anatomy, and its rays will cure any disease you have", 
said the company. Mr& H& is dead today because he followed this 
advice.   Doris Hull, suffering from tuberculosis, was taken 
by her husband to see Otis G& Carroll, a sanipractor- a licensed 
drugless healer- in Spokane. Carroll diagnosed Mrs& Hull by 
taking a drop of blood from her ear and putting it on his "radionic" 
machine and twirling some knobs (fee $50).   His prescription: 
hot and cold compresses to increase her absorption of water. Although 
she weighed only 108 pounds when she visited him, Carroll permitted 
her to go on a 10-day fast in which she took nothing but water. 
Inevitably, Mrs& Hull died of starvation and tuberculosis, weighing 
60 pounds. Moreover, her husband and child contracted T&B& 
from her. (Small wonder a Spokane jury awarded the husband $35,823 
for his wife's death.)   In California, a few years ago, a ghoul 
by the name of H& F& Bell sold electric blankets as a cure 
for cancer. He did this by the charming practice of buying up used electric 
blankets for $5 to $10 from survivors of patients who had died, 
reconditioning them, and selling them at $185 each. When authorities 
convicted him of practicing medicine without a license (he got off with 
a suspended sentence of three years because of his advanced age of 
77), one of his victims was not around to testify: He was dead of 
cancer.   By no means are these isolated cases. "Unfortunately", 
says Chief Postal Inspector David H& Stephens, who has prosecuted 
many device quacks, "the ghouls who trade on the hopes of 
the desperately ill often cannot be successfully prosecuted because the 
patients who are the chief witnesses die before the case is called up 
in court". ##

DEATH! Have no doubt about it. That's 
where device quackery can lead. The evidence shows that fake therapeutic 
machines, substituted for valid medical cures, have hastened the 
deaths of thousands.   Who are the victims of the device quacks? 
Authorities say that oldsters are a prime target. Says Wallace 
F& Jannsen, director of the ~FDA's Division of Public Information: 
"Quacks are apt to direct their appeal directly to older 
people, or to sufferers from chronic ailments such as arthritis, rheumatism, 
diabetes, and cancer. People who have not been able to get 
relief from regular medical doctors are especially apt to be taken in 
by quacks". The victims of the quacks are frequently poor people, like 
Mr& A&, who scrape up their life savings to offer as a sacrifice 
to Doctor Fraud's avarice. They are often ignorant as well as 
underprivileged.

TEN-YEAR-OLD Richard Stewart had been irritable and quarrelsome 
for almost a year. His grades had gone steadily downhill, and 
he had stopped bringing 
friends and classmates home from school.

Mr& and Mrs& Stewart were puzzled and concerned. Then one day 
Dick's classmate Jimmy, from next door, let the cat out of the 
bag. The youngsters in the boys' class had nicknamed Dick "Bugs 
Bunny" because his teeth protruded.   When Richard's parents 
told him they wanted to take him to an orthodontist- a dentist who 
specializes in realigning teeth and jaws- their young son was interested. 
During the year that followed, Dick co-operated whole-heartedly 
with the dentist and was delighted with the final result achieved- 
an upper row of strong straight teeth that completely changed his 
facial appearance.   Richard Stewart is no special case. "The 
majority of children in the United States could benefit by some form 
of orthodontic treatment", says Dr& Allan G& Brodie, professor 
and head of the department of orthodontics at the University of 
Illinois and a nationally recognized authority in his field. 
What do parents need to know about those "years of the braces" in 
order not to waste a child's time and their money? How can they 
tell whether a child needs orthodontic treatment? Why and when should 
tooth-straightening be undertaken? What is it likely to cost? 

#TOOTH FIT EXPLAINED#

OCCLUSION is the dentist's expression 
for the way teeth fit together when the jaws are closed. Malocclusion, 
or a bad fit, is what parents need to look out for. One main type 
of malocclusion is characterized by a receding chin and protruding upper 
front teeth. A chin too prominent in relation to the rest of the 
face, a thrusting forward of the lower front teeth, an overdeveloped lower 
jawbone, and an underdeveloped upper jaw indicate the opposite type 
of malocclusion.   These two basic malformations have, of course, 
many variations. A child probably requires some form of treatment 
if he has any of the following conditions: _@_ A noticeable 
protrusion of the upper or lower jaw. _@_ Crooked, overlapping, 
twisted, or widely spaced teeth. _@_ Front teeth not meeting 
when the back teeth close. _@_ Upper teeth completely covering 
the lowers when the back teeth close. _@_ The eyeteeth (third from 
the middle on top, counting each front tooth as the first) beginning 
to protrude like fangs. _@_ Second teeth that have come in before 
the first ones have fallen out, making a double row.   Contrary 
to the thinking of 30 to 40 years ago, when all malocclusion was 
blamed on some unfortunate habit, recent studies show that most tooth 
irregularity has at least its beginning in hereditary predisposition. 
However, this does not mean that a child's teeth or jaws must 
necessarily resemble those of someone in his family.   Tooth deformity 
may be the result of <excessive> thumb- or finger-sucking, tongue-thrusting, 
or lip-sucking- but it's important to remember that 
there's a difference between <normal> and <excessive> sucking 
habits. It's perfectly normal for babies to suck their thumbs, and 
no mother need worry if a child continues this habit until he is two 
or three years old. Occasional sucking up to the fifth year may not affect 
a youngster's teeth; but after that, if thumb-sucking pressure 
is frequent, it will have an effect.   Malocclusion can also 
result if baby teeth are lost too soon or retained too long. If a child 
loses a molar at the age of two, the adjoining teeth may shift toward 
the empty space, thus narrowing the place intended for the permanent 
ones and producing a jumble. If baby teeth are retained too long, the 
incoming second teeth may be prevented from emerging at the normal 
time or may have to erupt in the wrong place. 

#CORRECTION CAN SAVE TEETH# 

EVERY orthodontist sees children who are embarrassed by 
their malformed teeth. Some such youngsters rarely smile, or they try 
to speak with the mouth closed. In certain cases, as in Dick Stewart's, 
a child's personality is affected. Yet from the dentist's 
point of view, bad-fitting teeth should be corrected for physical reasons.

Bad alignment may result in early loss of teeth through 
a breakdown of the bony structure that supports their roots. This serious 
condition, popularly known as pyorrhea, is one of the chief causes 
of tooth loss in adults.   Then, too, misplaced or jammed-together 
teeth are prone to trapping food particles, increasing the 
likelihood of rapid decay. "For these and other reasons", says Dr& 
Brodie, "orthodontics can prolong the life of teeth".

The failure of teeth to fit together when closed interferes with normal 
chewing, so that a child may swallow food whole and put a burden 
on his digestive system. Because of these chewing troubles, a child may 
avoid certain foods he needs for adequate nutrition. Badly placed 
teeth can also cause such a speech handicap as lisping. 

#THE WHEN AND 
HOW OF STRAIGHTENING#

"MOST orthodontic work is done on children 
between the ages of 10 and 14, though there have been patients 
as young as two and as old as 55", says Dr& Brodie.   In 
the period from 10 to 14 the permanent set of teeth is usually completed, 
yet the continuing growth of bony tissue makes moving badly placed 
teeth comparatively easy. Orthodontic work is possible because teeth 
are held firmly but not rigidly, by a system of peridontal membrane with 
an involved nerve network, to the bone in the jaw; they are not 
anchored directly to the bone. Abnormal pressure, applied over a period 
of time, produces a change in the bony deposit, so a tooth functions 
normally in the new position into which it has been guided.   What 
can 10-year-old Susan expect when she enters the orthodontist's 
office? On her first visit the orthodontist will take ~X rays, 
photographs, tooth measurements, and "tooth prints"- an impression 
of the mouth that permits him to study her teeth and jaws. 
If he decides to proceed, he will custom-make for Susie an appliance 
consisting of bands, plastic plates, fine wires, and tiny springs. This 
appliance will exert a gentle and continuous or intermittent pressure 
on the bone. As the tooth moves, bone cells on the pressure side 
of it will dissolve, and new ones will form on the side from which the 
tooth has moved. This must be done at the rate at which new bony tissue 
grows, and no faster.   "If teeth are moved too rapidly, serious 
injury can be done to their roots as well as to the surrounding 
bone holding them in place", explains Dr& Brodie. "Moving one 
or two teeth can affect the whole system, and an ill-conceived plan 
of treatment can disrupt the growth pattern of a child's face".

During the first few days of wearing the appliance and immediately 
following each adjustment, Susan may have a slight discomfort or soreness, 
but after a short time this will disappear. Parents are often 
concerned that orthodontic appliances may cause teeth to decay. When 
in place, a well-cemented band actually protects the part of the tooth 
that is covered.   Next Susie will enter the treatment stage 
and visit the orthodontist once or twice a month, depending on the severity 
of her condition. During these visits the dentist will adjust 
the braces to increase the pressure on her teeth.   Last comes the 
<retention> stage. Susie's teeth have now been guided into a desirable 
new position. But because teeth sometimes may drift back to 
their original position, a retaining appliance is used to lock them in 
place. Usually this is a thin band of wire attached to the molars and 
stretching across the teeth. Susie may wear this only at night or for 
a few hours during the day.   Then comes the time when the last 
wire is removed and Susie walks out a healthier and more attractive 
girl than when she first went to the orthodontist.   How long 
will this take? Straightening one tooth that has come in wrong may 
take only a few months. Aligning all the teeth may take a year or more. 
An added complication such as a malformed jaw may take two or three 
years to correct. 

#WHAT IS THE COST?#

THE charge for a 
complete full-banded job differs in various parts of the country. Work 
that might cost $500 to $750 in the South could cost $750 to $1,200 
in New York City or Chicago. An average national figure for two 
to three years of treatment would be $650 to $1,000.   "Factors 
in the cost of treatment are the length of time involved and the skill 
and education of the practitioner", says Dr& Brodie.   To 
become an orthodontist, a man must first be licensed by his state as 
a dentist, then he must spend at least two years in additional training 
to acquire a license as a specialist.   "Costs may seem high, 
but they used to be even higher", says Dr& Brodie. "Fees 
are about half to a third of what they were 25 years ago".   The 
reason? People today are aware of the value of orthodontics, and 
as a result there are more practitioners in the field.   Most 
orthodontists require an initial payment to cover the cost of diagnostic 
materials and construction of the appliances, but usually the remainder 
of the cost may be spread over a period of months or years. In many 
cities in the United States clinics associated with dental schools 
will take patients at a nominal fee. Some municipal agencies will 
pay for orthodontic treatment for children of needy parents. 

#RESEARCH 
HELPS FAMILIES#

GROWTH studies have been carried on consistently 
by orthodontists. Dr& Brodie has 30-year records of head growth, 
started 20 minutes after children's births.   "In the 
past anyone who said that 90% of all malocclusion is hereditary was 
scoffed at; now we know that family characteristics <do> affect tooth 
formation to a large extent", he says. "Fortunately through our 
growth studies we have been able to see what nature does, and that 
helps us know what we can do".   This knowledge both modifies 
and dictates diagnosis and treatment. For example, a boy may inherit 
a small jaw from one ancestor and large teeth from another. In the past 
an orthodontist might have tried, over four or five years, to straighten 
and fit the boy's large teeth into a jaw that, despite some growth, 
would never accommodate them. Now a dentist can recommend extraction 
immediately.   In other cases, in view of present-day knowledge 
of head growth, orthodontists will recommend waiting four or five 
years before treatment. The child is kept on call, and the orthodontist 
watches the growth. "Nature often takes care of the problem", 
says Dr& Brodie. "A child with a certain type of head and teeth 
will outgrow tooth deformity".   That is why Dr& Brodie 
asks parents not to insist, against their dentist's advice, that their 
child have orthodontic work done too early. "Both because of our 
culture's stress on beauty and our improved economic conditions, 
some parents demand that the dentist try to correct a problem before it 
is wise to do so. Let the orthodontist decide the proper time to start 
treatment", he urges.   Superior new material for orthodontic 
work is another result of research. Plastics are easier to handle 
than the vulcanized rubber formerly used, and they save time and money. 
Plaster of Paris, once utilized in making impressions of teeth, has 
been replaced by alginates (gelatin-like material) that work quickly 
and accurately and with least discomfort to a child. 

#PREVENTION IS 
BEST#

AS a rule, the earlier general dental treatment is started, 
the less expensive and more satisfactory it is likely to be.

"After your child's baby teeth are all in- usually at the age 
of two and one half to three- it's time for that first dental appointment", 
Dr& Brodie advises. "Then see that your youngster 
has a routine checkup once a year".   To help prevent orthodontic 
problems from arising, your dentist can do these things: _@_ 
He can correct decay, thus preventing early loss of teeth. If 
a child <does> lose his first teeth prematurely because of decay- 
and if no preventive steps are taken- the other teeth may shift out 
of position, become overcrowded and malformed. In turn the other teeth 
are likely to decay because food particles may become impacted in them. 
From time to time the medium mentions other people "around him", 
who were "on the other side", and reports what they are saying. After 
a while there come initials and names, and he is interested to hear 
some rather unusual family nicknames. As the hour progresses, the 
sensitive seems to probe more deeply and to make more personal and specific 
statements. There are a few prognoses of coming events. ## 

ANOTHER MEDIUM, another sitter, would produce a somewhat different 
content, but in general it would probably sound much like the foregoing 
reading. Some mediums speak in practical, down-to-earth terms, while 
others may stress the spiritual. Not all, as a matter of fact, consider 
themselves "mediums" in the sense of receiving messages from 
the deceased. In fact, some sensitives rule this out, preferring to 
consider their expression as strictly extra-sensory perception 
(~ESP), 
on this side of the "veil". However that may be, people are 
known to go to mediums for diverse reasons. Perhaps they are mourning 
a recent death and want comfort, to feel in touch with the deceased, 
or seek indications for future plans. They may, of course, be curiosity 
seekers- or they may just be interested in the phenomenon of mediumship.

The mediums with whom the Parapsychology Foundation 
is working in this experiment are in a waking or only slightly dissociated 
state, so that the sitter can make comments, ask and answer questions, 
instead of talking with a "control" who speaks through an 
entranced sensitive. What we have here is in some ways more like an ordinary 
conversation.   But it is not really only a conversation. 
Many a sitter (in a personal sitting) has been amazed to realize that 
the medium was describing very vividly his state of mind. He himself 
might not have been really aware of his own mood; it had been latent, 
unspecified, semi-conscious and only partly realized- until she 
described it to him! Most striking indeed is this beyond-normal ability 
to put a finger on "pre-conscious" moods and to clarify them.

However, in the next visit that the researcher made to the medium, 
he did not receive a personal reading. Instead he brought with 
him the names of some people he had never met and of whom the medium 
knew nothing. For this was to be a "proxy sitting". ##

AS 
WAS NOTED earlier, it is important that in valid, objective study of 
this sort of communication, the interested sitter should be separated 
from the sensitive. Dr& Karlis Osis, Director of Research at 
the Parapsychology Foundation, described the basis for the experiment 
in a TOMORROW article, ("New Research on Survival After 
Death", Spring 1958). He remarked: "It has been clearly established 
that in a number of instances the message did not come from a 
spirit but was received telepathically by the medium from the sitter".

The possibility has to be ruled out that the medium's ~ESP 
may tap the memory of the sitter, and to do this, the two central 
characters in this drama must be separated.   One way to do 
this is by "proxy sittings", wherein the person seeking a message 
does not himself meet with the medium but is represented by a substitute, 
the proxy sitter. If the latter knows nothing about the absent sitter 
except his name (given by the experimenter), he cannot possibly 
give any clues, conscious or unconscious, far less ask leading questions. 
All he can do is to be an objective and careful questioner, seeking 
to help the sensitive in clarifying and making more specific her paranormal 
impressions.   Sometimes in these experiments "appointment 
sittings" are used. Here the absent sitter makes a "date" 
with a communicator (someone close to him who is deceased), asking him 
to "come in" at a certain hour, when a channel will be open for 
him. In this case the proxy sitter will know only the name of the communicator, 
nothing else. He gives this to the medium at the appointed 
time, and the reading then will be concerned with material about or messages 
from the communicator. As always, a tape recording or detailed 
notes are made, and a typescript of this is sent to the absent sitter.

So this proxy situation has set up at least a partial barrier 
between the medium's ~ESP and the absent sitter's mind. It 
is now harder to assume telepathy as a basis for the statements- though 
research still does not know how far afield ~ESP <can> range. 
##

NOW THE ORIGINAL absent sitter must decide whether the 
statements are meaningful to <him>. Here again laboratory approaches 
are being evolved, for it is recognized how "elastic" these readings 
can be, how they can apply to many people, and are often stated 
in general terms all too easily applied to any individual's own case. 
If you look at a reading meant for someone else, you will probably 
see that many of the items could be considered as applicable to you, 
even when you were not in the picture at all! An interested sitter 
may think the sensitive has made a "hit", describing something accurately 
for him, but can he really be sure that another sitter, hearing 
the same statement, would not apply it subjectively to his own circumstances? 
It is, of course, easy to see how "~J" will mean 
Uncle Jack to one person and little Jane to another. "A journey", 
"a 
little white house", "a change of outlook", can apply to many 
people. And even more complex items can be interpreted to conform 
to one's own point of view, which is by nature so personal. One sitter 
may think "a leather couch" identifies a reading as surely directed 
to him; to another, it seems that nobody but his father ever 
used the phrase, "Atta boy"!   To get around this quite difficult 
corner, there is one first aid to objectiveness: prevent the 
distant sitter from knowing which reading <was> for him. If he is 
not told which of four or five readings was meant for him, he can more 
readily assess each item in a larger frame: "Does that statement 
really sound as if it were for me, significant in my particular life? 
Or am I taking something that could really apply to almost anybody, 
and forgetting that many other people probably have had a similar 
experience"?   Conversely, experimenters would consider as impressive 
such statements as the following, which, if they turned out 
to be hits, are so unusual as to be really significant:   "He 
had four children, two sets of twins. After being a lawyer for twenty-five 
years he started studying for the ministry. Part of his house 
had been moved to the other side of the road. He died of typhoid in 
1921".   Methods have been developed of assigning "weights" 
to statements; that is, it is known empirically that names beginning 
with ~R are more common than those beginning with ~Z; that 
fewer women are named Miranda than Elizabeth; that in the United 
States more people die of heart disease than of smallpox. So each reading 
can be given a weight and each reading a score by adding up these 
weights. Specific dates would be important, as would double names. 
Various categories have been explored to find out about these "empirical 
probabilities" against which to measure the readings. ##

IN 
THE PARAPSYCHOLOGY FOUNDATION'S long-range experiment, readings 
are made by a variety of sensitives for a large number of cooperating 
sitters, trying to throw light on this question of the significance 
of mediumistic statements. It is very important indeed, in the field 
of extra-sensory perception and its relation to the survival hypothesis, 
to know whether the statements are actually only those which any 
intuitive person might venture and an eager sitter attach to himself. 
Or, on the other hand, are unlikely facts being stated, facts which are 
in themselves significant and <not> easily applicable to everybody? 
That is one thing the experiments are designed to find out.

So, after the sitting has been held, several readings at one time 
are mailed, and the distant sitter (whose name or whose communicator's 
name was given to the medium) must mark each little item as Correct 
(Hit), Incorrect (Miss), Doubtful, or Especially Significant (applying 
to him and, he feels, not to anyone else). He is required to 
mark every item and to indicate which reading he feels is actually his. 
All these evaluations are then totted up and tabulated, by adding 
up the Hits and Significants, with the weight placed on those in the 
sitter's own reading. That is, if he marks as most correct a reading 
<not> meant for him, the total experimental score falls.   Conversely, 
if he gives a heavy rating to his own reading, and finds more 
accurate facts in it than in the others, a point is chalked up for 
the intrinsic, objective meaningfulness of this type of mediumistic material. 
And there are some positive results, though the final findings 
will not be known for a long time- and then further research can 
be formulated.   In another approach to the same procedure, the 
content of the readings is analyzed so as to see how the particular medium 
is likely to slant her statements. Does she often speak of locations, 
of cause of death? Does she accurately give dates, ages, kind 
of occupation? It is possible to find out in which categories most 
of her correct statements fall, and where she makes most of her "hits". 
Now when, so to speak, the cream has been skimmed off, and the 
items in the successful categories separated out, the sitter can be asked 
to consider and rate only this concentrated "cream", where the 
sensitive is at her best. ##

MEDIUMISTIC IMPRESSIONS are evidently 
of all sorts and seem to involve all the senses. "I feel cold", 
the medium says, or "My leg aches", "My head is heavy". 
Or perhaps she hears words or sounds: "There's such a noise 
of loud machinery", or "I hear a child crying", or "He says 
we're all here and glad to see you". Maybe an entire scene comes 
into consciousness, with action and motion, or a static view: "a 
house under a pine tree, with a little stone path going up to the door". 
The sensitive often seems to smell definite odors, too, or subjectively 
feels emotions. Sometimes she displays amazing eidetic imagery 
and seems to see all details in perspective, as if the scene were actually 
there. If pressed by the sitter for more detail, she may be able 
to bring the picture more into focus and see more sharply, almost 
as if she were physically going closer.   If asked how she gets 
her impressions, she probably can only say that she "just gets them"- 
some more vividly than others. Perhaps this is not so extraordinary 
after all. Even in normal experience one gets impressions without 
knowing exactly how- of atmosphere, of one another's personalities, 
moods, intentions.   Of course, there is an element of training 
here: these gifted people, by concentration, study, guidance, 
have 
learned to develop their power. Simply <using> it increases its intensity, 
I was told by one sensitive.   Nor does a medium automatically 
know how to interpret her imagery. Impressions often appear in 
a symbolic form and cannot be taken at face value. It is apparently 
by symbols that the unconscious speaks to the conscious, and the medium 
has to translate these into meaning. If communication with an entity 
on the "other side" is taking place, this too may assume the form 
of clairvoyant symbolism.   During one reading an image appeared 
of a prisoner in irons. But this did not necessarily refer to an 
actual jail; taken with other details it could have referred to a state 
of mental or spiritual confinement. In this connection it is worth 
noting how names are sometimes obtained. Though they are often heard 
clairaudiently, as if a voice were speaking them, in other cases they 
are apprehended visually as symbols: a slope to signify the name 
"Hill", for instance. One medium saw two sheets flapping on a line 
and found that the name Shietz was significant to the sitter. 
_@_ Farming is confining. The farmer's life must be arranged 
to meet the demands of crops and livestock.   Livestock must be 
tended every day, routinely. A slight change in the work schedule may 
cut the production of cows or chickens.   Even if there are no 
livestock, the farmer cannot leave the farm for long periods, particularly 
during the growing season.   The worker who lives on a farm 
cannot change jobs readily. He cannot leave the farm to take work 
in another locality on short notice; such a move may mean a loss of 
capital. _@_ Hard physical labor and undesirable hours are a part 
of farm life. The farmer must get up early, and, at times, work late 
at night. Frequently he must work long hours in the hot sun or cold 
rain. No matter how well work is planned, bad weather or unexpected 
setbacks can cause extra work that must be caught up.   It may 
not be profitable for a part-time farmer to own the labor-saving machinery 
that a full-time farmer can invest in profitably. _@_ Production 
may fall far below expectations. Drought, hail, disease, and insects 
take their toll of crops. Sickness or loss of some of the livestock 
may cut into the owner's earnings, even into his capital. _@_ 
Returns for money and labor invested may be small even in a good 
year.   The high cost of land, supplies, and labor make it difficult 
to farm profitably on a part-time basis. Land within commuting 
distance of a growing city is usually high in price, higher if it has 
subdivision possibilities. Part-time farmers generally must pay higher 
prices for supplies than full-time farmers because they buy in smaller 
quantities. If the farm is in an industrial area where wages are high, 
farm labor costs will also be high.   A part-time farmer needs 
unusual skill to get as high production per hen, per cow, or per acre 
as can be obtained by a competent full-time farmer. It will frequently 
be uneconomical for him to own the most up-to-date equipment. He 
may have to depend upon custom service for specialized operations, 
such as spraying or threshing, and for these, he may have to wait his 
turn. There will be losses caused by emergencies that arise while he 
is away at his off-farm job. _@_ The farm may be an additional 
burden if the main job is lost. This may be true whether the farm is 
owned or rented.   If the farm is rented, the rent must be paid. 
If it is owned, taxes must be paid, and if the place is not free 
of mortgage, there will be interest and 
payments on the principal to take care of. _ADVANTAGES_ _@_A 
farm provides a wholesome and healthful environment for children. 
It gives them room to play and plenty of fresh air. The children can 
do chores adapted to their age and ability. Caring for a calf, a pig, 
or some chickens develops in children a sense of responsibility for 
work. _@_ Part-time farming gives a measure of security if the 
regular job is lost, <provided> the farm is owned free of debt and furnishes 
enough income to meet fixed expenses and minimum living costs. 
_@_ For some retired persons, part-time farming is a good way 
to supplement retirement income. It is particularly suitable for those 
who need to work or exercise out of doors for their health. _@_ 
Generally, the s 
ame level of living costs less in the country than 
in the city. The savings are not as great, however, as is sometime supposed. 
Usually, the cost of food and shelter will be somewhat less on 
the farm and the cost of transportation and utilities somewhat more. 
Where schools, fire and police protection, and similar municipal services 
are of equal quality in city and country, real estate taxes are 
usually about the same. _@_ A part-time farmer and his family can 
use their spare time profitably. _@_ Some persons consider the 
work on a farm recreational. For some white-collar workers it is a 
welcome change from the regular job, and a physical conditioner. 

#LAND, 
LABOR, AND EQUIPMENT NEEDED#

Part-time farming can take comparatively 
little land, labor, and equipment- or a great deal. It depends 
on the kind and the scale of the farming operation.   General 
requirements for land, labor, and equipment are discussed below. Specific 
requirements for each of various types of enterprises are discussed 
on pages 8 to 14. _LAND_ Three quarters to 1 acre of good land 
is enough for raising fruits and vegetables for home use, and for a 
small flock of chickens, a cow, and two pigs. You could not, of course, 
raise feed for the livestock on a plot this small.   If you 
want to 
raise feed or carry out some enterprise on a larger scale, you'll 
need more land.   In deciding how much land you want, take into 
account the amount you'll need to bring in the income you expect. But 
consider also how much you and your family can keep up along with your 
other work. The cost of land and the prospects for appreciation in 
value may influence your decision. Some part-time farmers buy more 
land than they need in anticipation of suburban development. This is 
a highly speculative venture.   Sometimes a desired acreage is offered 
only as part of a larger tract. When surplus land is not expensive 
to buy or to keep up, it is usually better to buy it than to buy 
so small an acreage that the development of adjoining properties might 
impair the residential value of the farm. _LABOR_ If you have a 
year-round, full-time job you can't expect to grow much more than your 
family uses- unless other members of the family do a good deal of 
the work or you hire help. As a rule, part-time farmers hire little 
help.   In deciding on the enterprises to be managed by family labor, 
compare the amount of labor that can be supplied by the family with 
the labor needs of various enterprises listed in table 1.   List 
the number of hours the family can be expected to work each month. 
You may want to include your own regular vacation period if you have 
one. Do not include all your spare time or all your family's spare 
time- only what you are willing to use for farm work. _EQUIPMENT_ 
If you are going to produce for home use only, you will need only 
hand tools. You will probably want to hire someone to do the plowing, 
however.   For larger plantings, you'll need some kind of power 
for plowing, harrowing, disking, and cultivating. If you have a planting 
of half an acre or more you may want to buy a small garden tractor 
(available for $300 to $500 with attachments, 1960 prices). These 
tractors are not entirely satisfactory for plowing, particularly on heavier 
soils, so you may still want to hire someone to do the plowing.

Cost of power and machinery is often a serious problem to the 
small-scale farmer. If you are going to farm for extra cash income on 
a part-time basis you must keep in mind the needed machinery investments 
when you choose among farm enterprises.   You can keep your 
machinery investment down by buying good secondhand machinery, by sharing 
the cost and upkeep of machinery with a neighbor, and by hiring 
someone with machinery to do certain jobs. If an expensive and specialized 
piece of machinery is needed- such as a spray rig, a combine, 
or a binder- it is better to pay someone with a machine to do the work. 

#SELECTING A FARM#

Before you look for a farm you'll need 
to know (1) the kind and scale of farming you want to undertake; and 
(2) 
whether you want to buy or rent.   Information on pages 8 to 14 
may help you in deciding on the kind and scale of your farming venture.

If you are not well acquainted with the area in which you wish 
to locate, or if you are not sure that you and your family will like 
and make a success of farming, usually you would do better to rent 
a place for a year or two before you buy.   Discussed below are 
some of the main things to look for when you select a part-time farm. 
_LOCATION_ _NEARNESS TO WORK.-_ Choose a location within easy 
commuting distance of both the regular job and other employment opportunities. 
Then if you change jobs you won't necessarily have to sell 
the farm. The presence of alternative job opportunities also will 
make the place easier to sell if that should become desirable. 
Obviously the farm should be on an all-weather road. _NEARNESS TO 
MARKETS.-_ If you grow anything to sell you will need markets nearby. 
If you plan to sell fresh vegetables or whole milk, for example, 
you should be close to a town or city. _KIND OF NEIGHBORHOOD.-_ 
Look for a farm in a neighborhood of well-kept homes. There are slums 
in the country as well as in the city. Few rural areas are protected 
by zoning. A tavern, filling station, junk yard, rendering plant, 
or some other business may go up near enough to hurt your home or to 
hurt its value. _FACILITIES IN THE AREA.-_ Check on the schools 
in the area, the quality of teaching, and the provision for transportation 
to and from them.   Find out whether fire protection, sewage 
system, gas, water mains, and electrical lines are available in the 
locality. If these facilities are not at the door, getting them may 
cost more than you expect. You may have to provide them yourself or 
get along without them.   You cannot get along without an adequate 
supply of pure water. If you are considering a part-time farm where 
the water must be provided by a well, find out if there is a good well 
on the farm or the probable cost of having one drilled. A pond may 
provide adequate water for livestock and garden. Pond water can be filtered 
for human use, but most part-time farmers would not want to go 
to so much trouble. The following amounts of water are needed per day 
for livestock and domestic uses. _TOPOGRAPHY AND SOIL_ Is the land 
suited to the crops you intend to raise? If you can't tell, get 
help from your county agricultural agent or other local specialist. 
Soil type, drainage, or degree of slope can make the difference between 
good crops and poor ones. Small areas that aren't right for a certain 
crop may lie next to areas that are well suited to that crop. _THE 
HOUSE_ Will the house on any part-time farm you are considering 
make a satisfactory full-time residence? How much will it cost to 
do any necessary modernizing and redecorating? If the house is not 
wired adequately for electricity or if plumbing or a central heating 
system must be installed, check into the cost of making these improvements. 

#BUYING A FARM#

The value of the farm to you will depend 
on- _@_ Its worth as a place to live. _@_ The value of 
the products you can raise on it. _@_ The possibilities of selling 
the property later on for suburban subdivision.   Decide first 
what the place is worth to you and your family as a home in comparison 
with what it would cost to live in town. Take into account the difference 
in city and county taxes, insurance rates, utility rates, and 
the cost of travel to work.   Next, estimate the value of possible 
earnings of the farm. To do this, set up a plan on paper for operating 
the farm. List the kind and quantity of things the farm can be 
expected to produce in an average year. Estimate the value of the produce 
at normal prices. The total is the probable gross income from farming.

To find estimated net farm income, subtract estimated 
annual farming expenditures from probable gross income from farming. Include 
as expenditures an allowance for depreciation of farm buildings 
and equipment. Also count as an expense a charge for the labor to be 
contributed by the family. It may be hard to decide what this labor 
is worth, but charge something for it. Otherwise, you may pay too much 
for the farm and get nothing for your labor.   To figure the 
value of the farm in terms of investment income, divide the estimated 
annual net farm income by the percentage that you could expect to get 
in interest if the money were invested in some other way. 
Everyone with a personal or group tragedy to relate had to be given his 
day in court as in some vast collective dirge. For almost two months, 
the defendant and the world heard from individuals escaped from the 
grave about fathers and mothers, graybeards, adolescents, babies, starved, 
beaten to death, strangled, machine-gunned, gassed, burned. One 
who had been a boy in Auschwitz had to tell how children had been selected 
by height for the gas chambers. The gruesome humor of the Nazis 
was not forgotten- the gas chamber with a sign on it with the name 
of a Jewish foundation and bearing a copper Star of David- nor 
the gratuitous sadism of ~SS officers. Public relations strategists 
everywhere, watching the reaction of the German press, the liberal 
press, the lunatic-fringe press, listening to their neighbors, studying 
interviews with men and women on the street, cried out: Too much, 
too much- the mind of the audience is becoming dulled, the horrors 
are losing their effect. And still another witness, one who had crawled 
out from under a heap of corpses, had to tell how the victims had 
been forced to lay themselves head to foot one on top of the other before 
being shot. **h   Most of this testimony may have been legally 
admissible as bearing on the <corpus delicti> of the total Nazi 
crime but seemed subject to question when not tied to the part in it 
of the defendant's Department of Jewish Affairs. Counsel for the 
defense, however, shrewdly allowing himself to be swept by the current 
of dreadful recollections, rarely raised an objection. Would not the 
emotional catharsis eventually brought on by this awfulness have a calming, 
if not exhausting, effect likely to improve his client's chances? 
Those who feared "emotionalism" at the Trial showed less 
understanding than Dr& Servatius of the route by which man achieves 
the distance necessary for fairness toward enemies. Interruptions 
came 
largely from the bench, which numerous times rebuked the Attorney 
General for letting his witnesses run on, though it, too, made no serious 
effort to choke off the flow.   But there was a contrast even 
more decisive than a hunger for fact between the Trial in Jerusalem 
and those in Moscow and New York. In each of the last, the trial 
<marked the beginning of a new course:> in Moscow the liquidation 
of the Old Bolsheviks and the tightening of Stalin's dictatorship; 
in the United States the initiation of militant anti-Communism, 
with the repentant ex-Communist in the vanguard. These trials were 
properly termed "political cases" in that the trial itself was 
a political act producing political consequences. But what could the 
Eichmann Trial initiate? Of what new course could it mark the beginning? 
The Eichmann case looked to the past, not to the future. 
It was the conclusion of the first phase of a process of tragic recollection, 
and of refining the recollection, that will last as long as there 
are Jews. As such, it was beyond politics and had no need of justification 
by a "message". ##

"IT IS NOT AN individual 
that is in the dock at this historical trial"- said Ben Gurion, 
"and not the Nazi regime alone- but anti-Semitism throughout 
history". How could supplying Eichmann with a platform on which to 
maintain that one could collaborate in the murder of millions of Jews 
<without being an anti-Semite> contribute to a verdict against anti-Semitism? 
And if it was not an individual who was in the dock, why 
was the Trial, as we shall observe later, all but scuttled in the 
attempt to prove Eichmann a "fiend"? These questions touch the 
root of confusion in the prosecution's case.   It might be contended, 
of course, that Eichmann in stubbornly denying anti-Semitic 
feelings was lying or insisting on a private definition of anti-Semitism. 
But in either event he was the wrong man for the kind of case outlined 
by Ben Gurion and set forth in the indictment. In such a case 
the defendant should serve as a clear example and not have to be tied 
to the issue by argument. One who could be linked to anti-Semitism 
only by overcoming his objections is scarcely a good specimen of the 
Jew-baiter throughout the ages. Shout at Eichmann though he might, 
the Prosecutor could not establish that the defendant was falsifying 
the way he felt about Jews or that what he did feel fell into the generally 
recognized category of anti-Semitism. Yes, he believed that the 
Jews were "enemies of the Reich", and such a belief is, of course, 
typical of "patriotic" anti-Semites; but he believed in the 
Jew-as-enemy in a kind of abstract, theological way, like a member 
of a cult speculating on the nature of things. The real question was 
how one passed from anti-Semitism of this sort to murder, and the answer 
to this question is not to be found in anti-Semitism itself. In 
regard to Eichmann, 
it was to be found in the Nazi outlook, which contained 
a principle separate from and far worse than anti-Semitism, a 
principle by which the poison of anti-Semitism itself was made more virulent. 
Perhaps under the guidance of this Nazi principle one could, 
as Eichmann declared, feel personally friendly toward the 
Jews and still be their murderer. Not through fear of disobeying orders, 
as Eichmann kept trying to explain, but through a peculiar giddiness 
that began in a half-acceptance of the vicious absurdities contained 
in the Nazi interpretation of history and grew with each of Hitler's 
victories into a permanent light-mindedness and sense of magical 
rightness that was able to respond to any proposal, and the more outrageous 
the better, "Well, let's try it". At any rate, the substance 
of Eichmann's testimony was that all his actions flowed from 
his membership in the party and the ~SS, and though the Prosecutor 
did his utmost to prove actual personal hatred of Jews, his success 
on this score was doubtful and the anti-Semitic lesson weakened to 
that extent. ##

BUT IF THE Trial did not expose the special 
Nazi mania so deadly to Jews as well as to anyone upon whom it happened 
to light, neither did it warn very effectively against the ordinary 
anti-Semitism of which the Nazis made such effective use in Germany 
and wherever else they could find it. If anti-Semitism was on trial 
in Jerusalem, why was it not identified, and with enough emphasis 
to capture the notice of the world press, in its connection with the 
activities of Eichmann's Department of Jewish Affairs, as exemplified 
by the betrayal and murder of Jews by non-police and non-party anti-Semites 
in Germany, as well as in Poland, Czechoslovakia, Hungary? 
The infamous Wansee Conference called by Heydrich in January 
1942, to organize the material and technical means to put to death 
the eleven million Jews spread throughout the nations of Europe, was 
attended by representatives of major organs of the German state, including 
the Reich Minister of the Interior, the State Secretary in 
charge of the Four Year Plan, the Reich Minister of Justice, the 
Under Secretary of Foreign Affairs. The measures for annihilation 
proposed and accepted at the Conference affected industry, transportation, 
civilian agencies of government. Heydrich, in opening the Conference, 
followed the reasoning and even the phraseology of the order 
issued earlier by Goering which authorized the Final Solution as 
" a complement to" previous "solutions" for eliminating the Jews 
from German living space through violence, economic strangulation, 
forced emigration, and evacuation. In other words, the promulgators 
of the murder plan made clear that physically exterminating the Jews 
was but an extension of the anti-Semitic measures already operating 
in every phase of German life, and that the new conspiracy counted on 
the general anti-Semitism that had made those measures effective, as 
a readiness for murder. This, in fact, it turned out to be. Since 
the magnitude of the plan made secrecy impossible, once the wheels had 
began to turn, persons controlling German industries, social institutions, 
and armed forces became, through their anti-Semitism or their 
tolerance of it, conscious accomplices of Hitler's crimes; whether 
in the last degree or a lesser one was a matter to be determined individually.

What more could be asked for a Trial intended to warn 
the world against anti-Semitism than this opportunity to expose the 
exact link between the respectable anti-Semite and the concentration-camp 
brute? Not in Eichmann's anti-Semitism but in the anti-Semitism 
of the sober German man of affairs lay the potential warning 
of the Trial. No doubt many of the citizens of the Third Reich had 
conceived their anti-Semitism as an "innocent" dislike of Jews, 
as do others like them today. The Final Solution proved that the 
Jew-baiter of any variety exposes himself as being implicated in the 
criminality and madness of others. Ought not an edifying Trial have 
made every effort to demonstrate this once and for all by showing how 
representative types of "mere" anti-Semites were drawn step by 
step into the program of skull-bashings and gassings? The Prosecutor 
in his opening remarks did refer to "the germ of anti-Semitism" 
among the Germans which Hitler "stimulated and transformed". But 
if there was evidence at the Trial that aimed over Eichmann's 
head 
at his collaborators in the societies where he functioned, the press 
seems to have missed it. ##

NOR DID THE Trial devote much 
attention to exposing the usefulness of anti-Semitism to the Nazis, 
both in building their own power and in destroying that of rival organizations 
and states. Certainly, one of the best ways of warning the 
world against anti-Semitism is to demonstrate its workings as a dangerous 
weapon. Eichmann himself is a model of how the myth of the enemy-Jew 
can be used to transform the ordinary man of present-day society 
into a menace to <all> his neighbors. Do patriots everywhere know 
enough about how the persecution of the Jews in Germany and later in 
the occupied countries contributed to terrorizing the populations, splitting 
apart individuals and groups, arousing the meanest and most dishonest 
impulses, pulverizing trust and personal dignity, and finally 
forcing people to follow their masters into the abyss by making them 
partners in unspeakable crimes? The career of Eichmann made the Trial 
a potential showcase for anti-Semitic demoralization: fearful 
of being mistaken for a Jew, he seeks protection in his Nazi uniform; 
clinging to the enemy-Jew idea, he is forced to overcome habits of 
politeness and neighborliness; once in power he begins to give vent 
to a criminal opportunism that causes him to alternate between megalomania 
and envy of those above him. "Is this the type of citizen you 
desire"? the Trial should have asked the nations. But though this 
characterization in no way diminished Eichmann's guilt, the Prosecutor, 
more deeply involved in the tactics of a criminal case than a 
political one, would have none of it.   Finally, if the mission 
of the Trial was to convict anti-Semitism, how could it have failed 
to post before the world the contrasting fates of the countries in which 
the Final Solution was aided by native Jew-haters- i&e&, 
Germany, Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia- and those in which it 
met the obstacle of human solidarity- Denmark, Holland, Italy, Bulgaria, 
France? Should not everyone have been awakened to it as an 
outstanding fact of our time that the nations poisoned by anti-Semitism 
proved less fortunate in regard to their own freedom than those whose 
citizens saved their Jewish compatriots from the transports? Wasn't 
this meaning of Eichmann's experience in various countries 
worth highlighting? 
##

AS THE FIRST collective confrontation 
of the Nazi outrage, the Trial of Eichmann represents a recovery 
of the Jews from the shock of the death camps, a recovery that took fifteen 
years and which is still by no means complete (though let no one 
believe that it could be hastened by silence). Only across a distance 
of time could the epic accounting begin. It is already difficult to 
recall how little we knew before the Trial of what had been done to 
the Jews of Europe. It is not that the facts of the persecution were 
unavailable; most of the information elicited in Jerusalem had 
been brought to the surface by the numerous War Crimes tribunals and 
investigating commissions, and by reports, memoirs, and survivors' 
accounts. 
IN POUGHKEEPSIE, N& Y&, in 1952, a Roman Catholic hospital 
presented seven Protestant physicians with an ultimatum to quit the 
Planned Parenthood Federation or to resign from the hospital staff. 
Three agreed, but four declined and were suspended. After a flood of 
protests, they were reinstated at the beginning of 1953. The peace 
of the community 
was badly disturbed, and people across the nation, reading of the 
incident, felt uneasy.   In New York City in 1958, the city's 
Commissioner of Hospitals refused to permit a physician to provide 
a Protestant mother with a contraceptive device. He thereby precipitated 
a bitter controversy involving Protestants, Jews and Roman 
Catholics that continued for two months, until the city's Board 
of Hospitals lifted the ban on birth-control therapy.   A year 
later in Albany, N& Y&, a Roman Catholic hospital barred an 
orthopedic surgeon because of his connection with the Planned Parenthood 
Association. Immediately, the religious groups of the city were 
embroiled in an angry dispute over the alleged invasion of a man's 
right to freedom of religious belief and conscience.   These incidents, 
typical of many others, dramatize the distressing fact that no 
controversy during the last several decades has caused more tension, 
rancor and strife among religious groups in this country than the birth-control 
issue. It has flared up periodically on the front pages of 
newspapers in communities divided over birth-prevention regulations in 
municipal hospitals and health and family-welfare agencies. It has erupted 
on the national level in the matter of including birth-control 
information and material in foreign aid to underdeveloped countries. Where 
it is not actually erupting, it rumbles and smolders in sullen resentment 
like a volcano, ready to explode at any moment.   The 
time has come for citizens of all faiths to unite in an effort to remove 
this divisive and nettlesome issue from the political and social life 
of our nation.   The first step toward the goal is the establishment 
of a new atmosphere of mutual good will and friendly communication 
on other than the polemical level. Instead of emotional recrimination, 
loaded phrases and sloganeering, we need a dispassionate study 
of the facts, a better understanding of the opposite viewpoint and a more 
serious effort to extend the areas of agreement until a solution is 
reached.   "All too frequently", points out James O'Gara, 
managing editor of <Commonweal>, "Catholics run roughshod over 
Protestant sensibilities in this matter, by failure to consider the 
reasoning behind the Protestant position and, particularly, by their 
jibes at the fact that Protestant opinion on birth control has changed 
in recent decades". All too often our language is unduly 
harsh.

The second step is to recognize the substantial agreement- 
frequently blurred by emotionalism and inaccurate newspaper reporting- 
already existing between Catholics and non-Catholics concerning the 
over-all objectives of family planning. Instead of Catholics' being 
obliged or even encouraged to beget the greatest possible number 
of offspring, as many non-Catholics imagine, the ideal of <responsible> 
parenthood is stressed. Family planning is encouraged, so that parents 
will be able to provide properly for their offspring.   Pope 
Pius /12, declared in 1951 that it is possible to be exempt from 
the normal obligation of parenthood for a long time and even for the 
whole duration of married life, if there are serious reasons, such as 
those often mentioned in the so-called medical, eugenic, economic and 
social "indications". This means that such factors as the health 
of the parents, particularly the mother, their ability to provide their 
children with the necessities of life, the degree of population density 
of a country and the shortage of housing facilities may legitimately 
be taken into consideration in determining the number of offspring.

These are substantially the same factors considered by non-Catholics 
in family planning. The laws of many states permit birth control 
only for medical reasons. The Roman Catholic Church, however, 
sanctions a much more liberal policy on family planning.   Catholics, 
Protestants and Jews are in agreement over the objectives of 
family planning, but disagree over the methods to be used. The Roman 
Catholic Church sanctions only abstention or the rhythm method, also 
known as the use of the infertile or safe period. The Church considers 
this to be the method provided by nature and its divine Author: 
It involves no frustration of nature's laws, but simply an intelligent 
and disciplined use of them. With the exception of the Roman 
Catholic and the Orthodox Catholic Churches, most churches make no 
moral distinction between rhythm and mechanical or chemical contraceptives, 
allowing the couple free choice.   Here is a difference in 
theological belief where there seems little chance of agreement. The 
grounds for the Church's position are Scriptural (Old Testament), 
the teachings of the fathers and doctors of the early Church, the 
unbroken tradition of nineteen centuries, the decisions of the highest 
ecclesiastical authority and the natural law. The latter plays a prominent 
role in Roman Catholic theology and is considered decisive, 
entirely apart from Scripture, in determining the ethical character of 
birth-prevention methods.   The Roman Catholic natural-law tradition 
regards as self-evident that the primary objective purpose of 
the conjugal act is procreation and that the fostering of the mutual 
love of the spouses is the secondary and subjective end. This conclusion 
is based on two propositions: that man by the use of his reason 
can ascertain God's purpose in the universe and that God makes known 
His purpose by certain "given" physical arrangements.   Thus, 
man can readily deduce that the primary objective end of the conjugal 
act is procreation, the propagation of the race. Moreover, man 
may not supplant or frustrate the physical arrangements established by 
God, who through the law of rhythm has provided a natural method for 
the control of conception. Believing that God is the Author of this 
law and of all laws of nature, Roman Catholics believe that they are 
obliged to obey those laws, not frustrate or mock them.   Let 
it be granted then that the theological differences in this area between 
Protestants and Roman Catholics appear to be irreconcilable. But 
people differ in their religious beliefs on scores of doctrines, without 
taking up arms against those who disagree with them. Why is it 
so different in regard to birth control? It is because each side has 
sought to <implement> its distinctive theological belief through legislation 
and thus indirectly <force> its belief, or at least the practical 
consequences thereof, upon others.   It is always a temptation 
for a religious organization, especially a powerful or dominant 
one, to impose through the clenched fist of the law its creedal viewpoint 
upon others. Both Roman Catholics and Protestants have succumbed 
to this temptation in the past.   Consider what happened during 
World War /1,, when the Protestant churches united to push the 
Prohibition law through Congress. Many of them sincerely believe 
that the use of liquor in any form or in any degree is intrinsically 
evil and sinful. With over four million American men away at war, Protestants 
forced their distinctive theological belief upon the general 
public. With the return of our soldiers, it soon became apparent that 
the belief was not shared by the great majority of citizens. The attempt 
to enforce that belief ushered in a reign of bootleggers, racketeers, 
hijackers and gangsters that led to a breakdown of law unparalleled 
in our history. The so-called "noble experiment" came to an 
inglorious end.   That tumultuous, painful and costly experience 
shows clearly that a law expressing a moral judgment cannot be enforced 
when it has little correspondence with the general view of society. 
That experience holds a lesson for us all in regard to birth control 
today.   Up to the turn of the century, contraception was condemned 
by <all> Christian churches as immoral, unnatural and contrary 
to divine law. This was generally reflected in the civil laws of Christian 
countries. Today, the Roman Catholic and Orthodox Churches 
stand virtually alone in holding that conviction. The various Lambeth 
Conferences, expressing the Anglican viewpoint, mirror the gradual 
change that has taken place among Protestants generally. 
In 1920, the Lambeth Conference repeated its 1908 condemnation of contraception 
and issued "an emphatic warning against the use of unnatural 
means for the avoidance of conception, together with the grave dangers- 
physical, moral, and religious- thereby incurred, and against 
the evils which the extension of such use threaten the race". Denouncing 
the view that the sexual union is an end in itself, the Conference 
declared: "We steadfastly uphold what must always be regarded 
as the governing considerations of Christian marriage. One is the 
primary purpose for which marriage exists, namely, the continuance 
of the race through the gift and heritage of children; the other is 
the paramount importance in married life of deliberate and thoughtful 
self-control". The Conference called for a vigorous campaign against 
the open or secret sale of contraceptives.   In 1930, the Lambeth 
Conference again affirmed the primary purpose of marriage to be 
the procreation of children, but conceded that, in certain limited circumstances, 
contraception might be morally legitimate.   In 1958, 
the Conference endorsed birth control as the responsibility laid by 
God on parents everywhere.   Many other Protestant denominations 
preceded the Anglicans in such action. In March, 1931, 22 out 
of 28 members of a committee of the Federal Council of Churches ratified 
artificial methods of birth control. "As to the necessity", 
the committee declared, "for some form of effective control of the 
size of the family and the spacing of children, and consequently of control 
of conception, there can be no question **h. There is general agreement 
also that sex union between husbands and wives as an expression 
of mutual affection <without> relation to procreation is right".

Since then, many Protestant denominations have made separate 
pronouncements, in which they not only approved birth control, but declared 
it at times to be a <religious duty>. What determines the morality, 
they state, is not the <means> used, but the <motive>. In 
general, the means (excluding abortion) that prove most effective are 
considered the most ethical.   This development is reflected in 
the action taken in February, 1961, by the general board of the 
National 
Council of Churches, the largest Protestant organization in the 
~US. The board approved and commended the use of birth-control 
devices as a part of Christian responsibility in family planning. It 
called for opposition to laws and institutional practices restricting 
the information or availability of contraceptives.   The general 
board declared: "Most of the Protestant churches hold contraception 
and periodic continence to be morally right when the motives are 
right **h. The general Protestant conviction is that motives, rather 
than methods, form the primary moral issue, provided the methods are 
limited to the prevention of conception".   An action once universally 
condemned by all Christian churches and forbidden by the civil 
law is now not only approved by the overwhelming majority of Protestant 
denominations, but also deemed, at certain times, to be a positive 
<religious duty>. This viewpoint has now been translated into 
action by the majority of people in this country. Repeated polls have 
disclosed that most married couples are now using contraceptives in the 
practice of birth control.   For all concerned with social-welfare 
legislation, the significance of this radical and revolutionary 
change in the thought and habits of the vast majority of the American 
people is clear, profound and far-reaching. To try to oppose the general 
religious and moral conviction of such a majority by a legislative 
fiat would be to invite the same breakdown of law and order that was 
occasioned by the ill-starred Prohibition experiment.   This brings 
us to the fact that the realities we are dealing with lie not in 
the field of civil legislation, but in the realm of conscience and religion: 
They are moral judgments and matters of theological belief. 
Conscience and religion are concerned with private <sin:> The civil 
law is concerned with public <crimes>. Only confusion, failure 
and anarchy result when the effort is made to impose upon the civil authority 
the impossible task of policing private homes to preclude the 
possibility of sin. Among the chief victims of such an ill-conceived 
imposition would be religion itself. 
##

On April 17, 1610, the sturdy little three-masted bark, <Discovery>, 
weighed anchor in St& Katherine's Pool, London, and 
floated down the Thames toward the sea. She carried, besides her captain, 
a crew of twenty-one and provisions for a voyage of exploration 
of the Arctic waters of North America.   Seventeen months later, 
on September 6, 1611, an Irish fishing boat sighted the <Discovery> 
limping eastward outside Galway Bay. When she reached port, 
she was found to have on board only eight men, all near starvation. The 
captain was gone, and the mate was gone. The man who now commanded 
her had started the voyage as an ordinary seaman.   What disaster 
struck the <Discovery> during those seventeen months? What happened 
to the fourteen missing men? These questions have remained 
one of the great sea mysteries of all time. For hundreds of years, the 
evidence available consisted of (1) the captain's fragmentary journal, 
(2) a highly prejudiced account by one of the survivors, (3) a note 
found in a dead man's desk on board, and (4) several second-hand 
reports. All told, they offered a highly confused picture.   But 
since 1927, researchers digging into ancient court records and legal 
files have been able to find illuminating pieces of information. Not 
enough to do away with all doubts, but sufficient to give a fairly accurate 
picture of the events of the voyage.   Historians have had 
two reasons for persisting so long in their investigations. First, 
they wanted to clarify a tantalizing, bizarre enigma. Second, they believed 
it important to determine the fate of the captain- a man whose 
name is permanently stamped on our maps, on American towns and counties, 
on a great American river, and on half a million square miles 
of Arctic seas.   The name: <Henry Hudson>.   This 
is the story of his last tragic voyage, as nearly as we are able- or 
ever, probably, will be able- to determine:   The sailing in 
the spring of 1610 was Hudson's fourth in four years. Each time 
his objective had been the same- a direct water passage from Western 
Europe to the Far East. In 1607 and 1608, the English Muscovy 
Company had sent him northward to look for a route over the North Pole 
or across the top of Russia. Twice he had failed, and the Muscovy 
Company indicated it would not back him again.   In 1609, the 
Dutch East India Company hired Hudson, gave him two learned geographers, 
fitted him out with a ship called the <Half Moon>, and supplied 
him with Dutch sailors. This time he turned westward, to the 
middle Atlantic coast of North America. His chief discovery was important- 
the Great North (later, the Hudson) River- but it produced 
no northwest passage. ##

When the <Half Moon> put in at 
Dartmouth, England, in the fall of 1609, word of Hudson's findings 
leaked out, and English interest in him revived. The government 
forbade Hudson to return to Amsterdam with his ship. He thereupon went 
to London and spent the winter talking to men of wealth. By springtime, 
he was supported by a rich merchant syndicate under the patronage 
of Henry, Prince of Wales. He had obtained and provisioned a veteran 
ship called the <Discovery> and had recruited a crew of twenty-one, 
the largest he had ever commanded.   The purpose of this 
fourth voyage was clear. A century of exploration had established that 
a great land mass, North and South America, lay between Europe 
and 
the Indies. One by one, the openings in the coast that promised a 
passage through had been explored and discarded. In fact, Hudson's 
sail up the Great North River had disposed of one of the last hopes.

But there remained one mysterious, unexplored gap, far to 
the north. Nearly twenty-five years before, Captain John Davis had 
noted, as he sailed near the Arctic Circle, "a very great gulf, the 
water whirling and roaring, as it were the meeting of tides". He 
named this opening, between Baffin Island and Labrador, the "Furious 
Overfall". (Later, it was to be called Hudson Strait.)

In 1602, George Waymouth, in the same little <Discovery> that 
Hudson now commanded, had sailed 300 miles up the strait before his 
frightened men turned the ship back. Hudson now proposed to sail all 
the 
way through and test the seas beyond for the long-sought waterway.

Even Hudson, experienced in Arctic sailing and determined as he 
was, must have had qualms as he slid down the Thames. Ahead were perilous, 
ice-filled waters. On previous voyages, it had been in precisely 
such dangerous situations that he had failed as a leader and captain. 
On the second voyage, he had turned back at the frozen island of 
Novaya Zemlya and meekly given the crew a certificate stating that 
he did so of his own free will- which was obviously not the case. On 
the third voyage, a near-mutiny rising from a quarrel between Dutch 
and English crew members on the <Half Moon> had almost forced him 
to head the ship back to Amsterdam in mid-Atlantic.   Worse, 
his present crew included five men who had sailed with him before. Of 
only one could he be sure- young John Hudson, his second son. The 
mate, Robert Juet, who had kept the journal on the <half Moon>, 
was experienced- but he was a bitter old man, ready to complain or 
desert at any opportunity. Philip Staffe, the ship's carpenter, was 
a good worker, but perversely independent. Arnold Lodley and Michael 
Perse were like the rest- lukewarm, ready to swing against Hudson 
in a crisis.   But men willing to sail at all into waters where 
wooden ships could be crushed like eggs were hard to find. Hudson 
knew he had to use these men as long as he remained an explorer. And 
he refused to be anything else.   It is believed that Hudson 
was related to other seafaring men of the Muscovy Company and was 
trained 
on company ships. He was a Londoner, married, with three sons. 
(The common misconception that he was Dutch and that his first name 
was Hendrik stem from Dutch documents of his third voyage.) In 1610, 
Hudson was probably in his early forties, a good navigator, a stubborn 
voyager, but otherwise fatally unsuited to his chosen profession. 
##

Hudson's first error of the fourth voyage occurred only a 
few miles down the Thames. There at the river's edge waited one Henry 
Greene, whom Hudson listed as a "clerk". Greene was in actuality 
a young ruffian from Kent, who had broken with his parents in 
order to keep the company he preferred- pimps, panders and whores. 
He was not the sort of sailor Hudson wanted his backers to see on board 
and he had Greene wait at Gravesend, where the <Discovery> picked 
him up.   For the first three weeks, the ship skirted up the 
east coast of Great Britain, then turned westward. On May 11, she 
reached Iceland. Poor winds and fog locked her up in a harbor the 
crew called "Lousie Bay". The subsequent two-weeks wait made the 
crew quarrelsome. With Hudson looking on, his protege Greene picked 
a fight with the ship's surgeon, Edward Wilson. The issue was 
settled on shore, Greene winning and Wilson remaining ashore, determined 
to catch the next fishing boat back to England. With difficulty, 
Hudson persuaded him to rejoin the ship, and they sailed from Iceland. 
##

Early in June, the <Discovery> passed "Desolation" 
(southern Greenland) and in mid-June entered the "Furious Overfall". 
Floating ice bore down from the north and west. Fog hung 
over the route constantly. Turbulent tides rose as much as fifty feet. 
The ship's compass was useless because of the nearness of the magnetic 
North Pole.   As the bergs grew larger, Hudson was 
forced to turn south into what is now Ungava Bay, an inlet of the 
great strait. After finding that its coasts led nowhere, however, he 
turned north again, toward the main, ice-filled passageway- and the 
crew, at first uneasy, then frightened, rebelled.   The trouble 
was at least partly Juet's doing. For weeks he had been saying that 
Hudson's idea of sailing through to Java was absurd. The great, 
crushing ice masses coming into view made him sound like the voice 
of pure reason. A group of sailors announced to Hudson that they would 
sail no farther.   Instead of quelling the dissension, as many 
captains of the era would have done (Sir Francis Drake lopped a man's 
head off under similar circumstances), Hudson decided to be reasonable. 
He went to his cabin and emerged carrying a large chart, which 
he set up in view of the crew. Patiently, he explained what he knew 
about their course and their objectives.   When Hudson had finished, 
the "town meeting" broke down into a general, wordy 
argument. 
One man remarked that if he had a hundred pounds, he would give ninety 
of them to be back in England. Up spoke carpenter Staffe, who 
said he wouldn't give <ten> pounds to be home. The statement was 
effective. The meeting broke up. Hudson was free to sail on. ## 

All through July the <Discovery> picked her way along the 450-mile-long 
strait, avoiding ice and rocky islands. On August 3, two massive 
headlands reared out of the mists- great gateways never before, 
so far as Hudson knew, seen by Europeans. To starboard was a cape 
a thousand feet high, patched with ice and snow, populated by thousands 
of screaming sea birds. To port was a point 200 feet high rising behind 
to a precipice of 2,000 feet. Hudson named the capes Digges and 
Wolstenholme, for two of his backers.   Hudson pointed the <Discovery> 
down the east coast of the newly discovered sea (now called 
Hudson Bay), confident he was on his way to the warm waters of the 
Pacific. After three weeks' swift sailing, however, the ship entered 
an area of shallow marshes and river deltas. The ship halted. The 
great "sea to the westwards" was a dead end.   This must have 
been Hudson's blackest discovery. For he seemed to sense at once 
that before him was no South Sea, but the solid bulk of the North 
American continent. This was the bitter end, and Hudson seemed to 
know he was destined to failure.   Feverishly, he tried to brush 
away this intuition. North and south, east and west, back and forth 
he sailed in the land-locked bay, plowing furiously forward until land 
appeared, then turning to repeat the process, day after day, week after 
week. Hundreds of miles to the north, the route back to England 
through the "Furious Overfall" was again filling with ice.

The men were at first puzzled, then angered by the aimless tacking. 
Once more, Juet's complaints were the loudest. Hudson's reply 
was to accuse the mate of disloyalty. Juet demanded that Hudson prove 
his charges in an open trial.   The trial was held September 
10. Hudson, presiding, heard Juet's defense, then called for testimony 
from crew members. Juet had made plentiful enemies, several men 
stepped forward. Hands on Bible, seaman Lodley and carpenter Staffe 
swore that Juet had tried to persuade them to keep muskets and swords 
in their cabins. Cook Bennett Mathues said Juet had predicted 
bloodshed on the ship. Others added that Juet had wanted to turn the 
ship homeward.   Hudson deposed Juet and cut his pay. The new 
mate was Robert Bylot, talented but inexperienced. There were other 
shifts and pay cuts according to the way individuals had conducted themselves. 
The important result, however, was that Juet and Francis 
Clemens, the deposed boatswain, became Hudson's sworn enemies.

As Hudson resumed his desperate criss-crossing of the little 
bay, every incident lessened the crew's respect for him. Once, 
after the <Discovery> lay for a week in rough weather, Hudson ordered 
the anchor raised before the sea had calmed. Just as it was being 
hauled inboard, a sea hit the ship. Michael Butt and Adame Moore 
were thrown off the capstan and badly injured. The anchor cable would 
have been lost overboard, but Philip Staffe was on hand to sever 
it with his axe.

Thomas Douglas, fifth Earl of Selkirk, a noble humanitarian 
Scot concerned with the plight of the crofters of his native Highlands, 
conceived a plan to settle them in the valley of the Red River 
of the North. Since the land he desired lay within the great northern 
empire of the Hudson's Bay Company, he purchased great blocks of 
the Comany's stock with the view to controlling its policies. Having 
achieved this end, he was able to buy 116,000 square miles in the 
valleys of the Red and Assiniboine rivers. The grant, which stretched 
southward to Lake Traverse- the headwaters of the Red- was 
made in May, 1811, and by October of that year a small group of Scots 
was settling for the winter at York Factory on Hudson Bay. Thus 
at the same time that William Henry Harrison was preparing to pacify 
the aborigines of Indiana Territory and winning fame at the battle 
of Tippecanoe, Anglo-Saxon settlement made a great leap into the 
center of the North American continent to the west of the American 
agricultural frontier.   Seven hundred miles south of York Factory, 
at "the Forks" of the Red and the Assiniboine, twenty-three 
men located a settlement in August 1812. By October the little 
colony about Fort Douglas (present-day Winnipeg) numbered 100. Within 
a few years the Scots, engaged in breaking the thick sod and stirring 
the rich soil of the valley, were joined by a group called <Meurons>. 
The latter, members of two regiments of Swiss mercenaries transported 
by Great Britain to Canada to fight the Americans in the 
War of 1812, had settled in Montreal and Kingston at the close of 
the war in 1815. Selkirk persuaded eighty men and four officers to go 
to Red River where they were to serve as a military force to protect 
his settlers from the hostile Northwest Company which resented the 
intrusion of farmers into the fur traders' empire. The mercenaries 
were little interested in farming and added nothing to the output of 
the farm plots on which all work was still done with hoes as late as 
1818.   It was the low yield of the Selkirk plots and the ravages 
of grasshoppers in 1818 that led to the dispersal of the settlement 
southward. When late in the summer the full extent of the damage was 
assessed, all but fifty of the Scots, Swiss and <metis> moved up 
the Red to the mouth of the Pembina river. Here they built huts and 
a stockade named Fort Daer after Selkirk's barony in Scotland. 
The new site was somewhat warmer than Fort Douglas and much closer 
to the great herds of buffalo on which the settlement must depend for 
food.   The Selkirk settlers had been anticipated in their move 
southward by British fur traders. For many years the Northwest Company 
had its southern headquarters at Prairie du Chien on the Mississippi 
River, some 300 miles southeast of present-day St& Paul, 
Minnesota. When in 1816 an act of Congress forced the foreign firm 
out of the United States, its British-born employees, now become American 
citizens- Joseph Rolette, Joseph Renville and Alexis Bailly- 
continued in the fur business. On Big Stone Lake near the 
headwaters of the Red River, Robert Dickson, Superintendent of 
the Western Indian Department of Canada, had a trading post and planned 
in 1818 to build a fort to be defended by twenty men and two small 
artillery pieces. His trading goods came from Canada to the Forks 
of Red River and from Selkirk's settlement he brought them south 
in carts. These carts were of a type devised in Pembina in the days 
of Alexander Henry the Younger about a decade before the Selkirk 
colony was begun. In 1802 Henry referred to "our new carts" as 
being about four feet off the ground and carrying five times as much as 
a horse could pack. They were held together by pegs and withes and 
in later times drawn by a single ox in thills.   It was Dickson 
who suggested to Lord Selkirk that he return to the Atlantic coast 
by way of the United States. In September 1817 at Fort Daer (Pembina) 
Dickson met the noble lord whom, with the help of a band of Sioux, 
he escorted to Prairie du Chien. During the trip Selkirk decided 
that the route through Illinois territory to Indiana and the eastern 
United States was the best route for goods from England to reach 
Red River and that the United States was a better source of supply 
for many goods than either Canada or England. Upon arriving at 
Baltimore, Selkirk on December 22 wrote to John Quincy Adams, 
Secretary of State at Washington, inquiring about laws covering trade 
with "Missouri and Illinois Territories". This traffic, he 
declared prophetically, "tho' it might be of small account at first, 
would increase with the progress of our Settlements **h". 
The route which he had traveled and which he believed might develop 
into a trade route was followed by his settlers earlier than he might 
have expected. In 1819 grasshoppers again destroyed the crop at "the 
Forks" (Fort Douglas) and in December 1819, twenty men left Fort 
Daer for the most northerly American outpost at Prairie du Chien. 
It was a three-month journey in the dead of winter followed by three 
months of labor on Mackinac boats. With these completed and ice 
gone from the St& Peter's River (present-day Minnesota river) 
their 250 bushels of wheat, 100 bushels of oats and barley and 30 bushels 
of peas and some chickens were loaded onto the flat-bottomed boats 
and rowed up the river to Big Stone Lake, across into Lake Traverse, 
and down the Red. They reached Fort Douglas in June 1820. This 
epic effort to secure seed for the colony cost Selkirk @1,040. 
Nevertheless so short was the supply of seed that the settlers were 
forced to retreat to Fort Daer for food. Thereafter seed and food became 
more plentiful and the colony remained in the north the year round.

Activity by British traders and the presence of a colony 
on the Red prompted the United State War Department in 1819 to send 
Lieutenant-Colonel Henry Leavenworth from Detroit to put a post 
300 miles northwest of Prairie du Chien, until then the most advanced 
United States post. In September 1822 two companies of infantry 
arrived at the mouth of the St& Peter's River, the head of navigation 
on the Mississippi, and began construction of Fort St& 
Anthony which, upon completion, was renamed in honor of its commander, 
Colonel Josiah Snelling.   It was from the American outposts 
that Red River shortages of livestock were to be made good. Hercules 
L& Dousman, fur trader and merchant at Prairie du Chien, contracted 
to supply Selkirk's people with some 300 head of cattle, and 
Alexis Bailly and Francois Labothe were hired as drovers. Bailly, 
after leaving Fort Snelling in August 1821, was forced to leave 
some of the cattle at the Hudson's Bay Company's post on Lake 
Traverse "in the Sieux Country" and reached Fort Garry, as the 
Selkirk Hudson's Bay Company center was now called, late in the 
fall. He set out on his 700-mile return journey with five families 
of discontented and disappointed Swiss who turned their eyes toward 
the United States. Observing their distressing condition, Colonel 
Snelling allowed these half-starved immigrants to settle on the military 
reservation.   As these Swiss were moving from the Selkirk 
settlement to become the first civilian residents of Minnesota, Dousman 
of Michilimackinac, Michigan, and Prairie du Chien was traveling 
to Red River to open a trade in merchandise. Early in 1822 he was 
at Fort Garry offering to bring in pork, flour, liquor and tobacco. 
Alexander McDonnell, governor of Red River, and James Bird, 
a chief factor of the Hudson's Bay Company, ordered such "sundry 
articles" to a value of @4,500.   For its part the Hudson's 
Bay Company was troubled by the approach of American settlement. 
As the time drew near for the drawing of the British-American frontier 
by terms of the agreement of 1818, the company suspected that the 
Pembina colony- its own post and Fort Daer- was on American 
territory. Accordingly Selkirk's agents ordered the settlers to move 
north, and by October, John Halkett had torn down both posts, floating 
the timber to "the Forks" in rafts. "I have done everything", 
he wrote, "to break up the whole of that unfortunate establishment 
**h". Despite Company threats, duly carried through, to cut 
off supplies of powder, ball, and thread for fishing nets, about 350 
persons stayed in the village. They would attempt to bring supplies 
from St& Louis or Prairie du Chien at "great expense as well 
as danger".   At Fort Garry some of the Swiss also decided 
to cast their lot with the United States, and in 1823 several families 
paid guides to take them to Fort Snelling. The disasters of 1825-1826 
caused more to leave. After heavy rains and an onslaught of mice, 
snow fell on October 15, 1825, and remained on the ground through 
a winter so cold that the ice on the Red was five feet thick. In April 
came a rapid thaw that produced high waters which did not recede until 
mid-June. On June 24 more than 400 families started the three-month 
trip across the plains to the Mississippi. By fall, 443 survivors 
of this arduous journey were clustered about Fort Snelling, but 
most of them were sent on to Galena and St& Louis, with a few going 
as far as Vevay, Indiana, a notable Swiss center in the United 
States. In 1837, 157 Red River people with more than 200 cattle were 
living on the reservation at Fort Snelling.   Below the fort, 
high bluffs extended uninterruptedly for six miles along the Mississippi 
River. At the point where they ended, another settlement grew 
up around a chapel built at the boat landing by Father Lucian Galtier 
in 1840. Its people, including Pierre Bottineau and other American 
Fur Company employees and the refugees from Fort Garry, were 
joined by the remaining Scots and Swiss from Fort Snelling when Major 
Joseph Plympton expelled them from the reservation in May 1840. 
The resultant town, platted in 1847 and named for the patron of Father 
Galtier's mission, St& Paul, was to become an important center 
of the fur trade and was to take on a new interest for those Selkirkers 
who remained at Red River.   While population at Fort 
Garry increased rapidly, from 2,417 in 1831 to 4,369 in 1840, economic 
opportunities did not increase at a similar rate. Accordingly, though 
the practice violated the no-trading provision of the Selkirk charter 
which reserved all such activity in merchandise and furs to the 
Hudson's Bay Company, some settlers went into trade. The Company 
maintained a store at which products of England could be purchased 
and brought in goods for the new merchants on the understanding that they 
refrain from trading in furs. Despite this prohibiton, by 1844 some 
of the Fort Garry merchants were trading with the Indians for furs. 
In June 1845, the Governor and Council of Assiniboia imposed 
a 20 per cent duty on imports via Hudson's Bay which were viewed 
as aimed at the "very vitals of the Company's trade and power". 
To reduce further the flow of goods from England, the Company's 
local officials asked that its London authorities refrain from forwarding 
any more trade goods to these men.   With their customary source 
of supply cut off, the Fort Garry free traders engaged three men 
to cart goods to them from the Mississippi country. Others carried 
pemmican from "the Forks" to St& Paul and goods from St& 
Paul to Red River, as in the summer of 1847 when one trader, Wells, 
transported twenty barrels of whisky to the British settlement. This 
trade was subject to a tariff of 7.5 per cent after February 1835, 
but much was smuggled into Assiniboia with the result that the duty 
was reduced by 1841 to 4 per cent on the initiative of the London committee.

The trade in a few commodities noted above was to grow 
in volume as a result of changes both north and south of the 49th parallel. 
The letters of the common soldiers are rich in humor. Indeed, no richer 
humor is to be found in the whole of American literature than in 
the letters of the semi-literate men who wore the blue and the gray. Some 
of their figures of speech were colorful and expressive. A Confederate 
observed that the Yankees were: "thicker than lise on a hen 
and a dam site ornraier". Another reported that his comrades were 
"in fine spirits pitching around like a blind dog in a meat house". 
A third wrote that it was "raining like poring peas on a rawhide".

Yanks were equally adept at figurative expression. One 
wrote: "[I am so hungry] I could eat a rider off his horse + 
snap at the stirups". A second reported that the dilapidated houses 
in Virginia "look like the latter end of original sin and hard times". 
A third remarked of slowness of Southerners: "They moved 
about from corner to corner, as uneasy as a litter of hungry leaches 
on the neck of a wooden god". Still another, annoyed by the brevity 
of a recently received missive, wrote: "Yore letter was short and 
sweet, jist like a roasted maget". A Yankee sergeant gave the following 
description of his sweetheart: "My girl is none of your one-horse 
girls. She is a regular stub and twister, double geered. **h 
She is well-educated and refined, all wildcat and fur, and Union from 
the muzzle to the crupper".   Humor found many modes of expression. 
A Texan wrote to a male companion at home: "What has become 
of Halda and Laura? **h When you see them again give them my 
love- not best respects now, but love by God". William R& Stillwell, 
an admirable Georgian whose delightful correspondence is preserved 
in the Georgia Department of Archives and History, liked 
to 
tease his wife in his letters. After he had been away from home about 
a year he wrote: "[Dear Wife] If I did not write and receive 
letters from you I believe that I would forgit that I was married 
I don't feel much like a maryed man but I never forgit it sofar 
as to court enny other lady but if I should you must forgive me as 
I am 
so forgitful". A Yank, disturbed by his increasing corpulence, wrote: 
"I am growing so fat **h I am a burden 2 myself". Another 
Yank parodied the familiar bedtime prayer: "Now I lay me down 
to sleep, The gray-backs o'er my body creep; If they should bite 
before I wake, I pray the Lord their jaws to break"". 
Charles 
Thiot, a splendid Georgia soldier, differed from most of his 
comrades in the ranks in that he was the owner of a large plantation, 
well-educated, and nearly fifty years of age. But he was very much like 
his associates in his hatred of camp routine. Near the end of his 
service he wrote that when the war was over he was going to buy two pups, 
name one of them "fall-in" and the other "close-up", and 
then shoot them both, "and that will be the end of 'fall-in' and 
'close-up'".   The soldiers who comprised the rank and file 
of the Civil War armies were an earthy people. They talked and 
wrote much about the elemental functions of the body. One of the most 
common of camp maladies was diarrhoea. Men of more delicate sensibilities 
referred to this condition as "looseness of the bowels"; but 
a much more common designation was "the sh-ts". A Michigan soldier 
stationed in Georgia wrote in 1864: "I expect to be tough 
as a knott as soon as I get over the Georgia Shitts". Johnny Rebs 
from the deep South who were plagued with diarrhoea after transfer 
to the Virginia front often informed their families that they were suffering 
from the "the Virginia quickstep".   A Georgia soldier 
gave his wife the following description of the cause and consequence 
of diarrhoea: "I have bin a little sick with diorah two or three 
days **h. I eat too much eggs and poark it sowered [on] my stomack 
and turn loose on me". A Michigan soldier wrote his brother: 
"I am well at present with the exception I have got the Dyerear 
and I hope thease few lines find you the same".   The letters 
which poured forth from camps were usually written under adverse circumstances. 
Save for brief periods in garrison or winter quarters, soldiers 
rarely enjoyed the luxury of a writing desk or table. Most of 
the letters were written in the hubbub of camp, on stumps, pieces of 
bark, drum heads, or the knee. In the South, after the first year of 
the war, paper and ink were very poor. Scarcity of paper caused many 
Southerners to adopt the practice of cross-writing, i&e&, after writing 
from left to right of the page in the usual manner, they gave the 
sheet a half turn and wrote from end to end across the lines previously 
written. Sometimes soldiers wrote letters while bullets were whizzing 
about their heads. A Yank writing from Vicksburg, May 28, 1863, 
stated "Not less than 50 balls have passed over me since I commenced 
writing **h. I could tell you of plenty narrow escapes, but we 
take no notice of them now". A Reb stationed near Petersburg informed 
his mother: "I need not tell you that I dodge pretty often 
**h for you can see that very plainly by the blots in this letter. Just 
count each blot a dodge and add in a few for I don't dodge every 
time". Another Reb writing under similar circumstances before Atlanta 
reported: "The Yankees keep Shooting so I am afraid they 
will knock over my ink, so I will close". #/3,#

The most 
common type of letter was that of soldier husbands to their wives. But 
fathers often addressed communications to their small children; and 
these, full of homely advice, are among the most human and revealing 
of Civil War letters. Rebs who owned slaves occasionally would include 
in their letters admonitions or greetings to members of the Negro 
community. Occasionally they would write to the slaves. Early in the 
war it was not uncommon for planters' sons to retain in camp Negro 
"body servants" to perform the menial chores such as cooking, foraging, 
cleaning the quarters, shining shoes, and laundering clothes. 
Sometimes these servants wrote or dictated for enclosure with the letters 
of their soldier-masters messages to their relatives and to members 
of their owners' families.   Unmarried soldiers carried on 
correspondence with sweethearts at home. Owing to the restrained usages 
characteristic of 19th-century America, these letters usually were 
stereotyped and revealed little depth of feeling.   Occasionally 
gay young blades would write vividly to boon companions at home about 
their amorous exploits in Richmond, Petersburg, Washington, or 
Nashville. But these comments are hardly printable. An Alabama soldier 
whose 
feminine associations were of the more admirable type wrote boastfully 
of his achievements among the Virginia belles: "They thout 
I was a saint. I told them some sweet lies and they believed it 
all **h I would tell them I got a letter from home stating that five 
of my Negroes had runaway and ten of Pappies But I wold say I 
recond he did not mind it for he had a plenty more left and then they 
would lean to me like a sore eyd kitten to a basin of milk". 
Some of the letters were pungently expressive. An Ohio soldier who, 
from a comrade just returned from leave, received an unfavorable comment 
on the conduct of his sister, took pen in hand and delivered himself 
thus: "[Dear Sis] Alf sed he heard that you and hardy was 
a runing together all the time and he though he wod gust quit having 
any thing mor to doo with you for he thought it was no more yuse **h. 
I think you made a dam good chouise to turn off as nise a feler as Alf 
dyer and let that orney thefin, drunkard, damed card playing Sun 
of a bich com to Sea you, the god damed theaf and lop yeard pigen tode 
helion, he is too orney for hel **h. i will Shute him as shore as 
i Sea him".   Initiation into combat sometimes elicited from 
soldier correspondents choice comments about their experiences and reactions. 
A Federal infantryman wrote to his father shortly after his 
first skirmish in Virginia: "Dear Pa **h. Went out a Skouting 
yesterday. We got to one house where there were five secessionist they 
brok + run and Arch holored out to shoot the ornery suns of biches 
and we all let go at them. Thay may say what they please but godamit 
Pa it is fun".   Some of the choicest remarks made by soldiers 
in their letters were in disparagement of unpopular officers. A Mississippi 
soldier wrote: "Our General Reub Davis **h is a vain, 
stuck-up, illiterate ass". An Alabamian wrote: "Col& Henry 
is [an ignoramus] fit for nothing higher than the cultivation 
of corn". A Floridian stated that his officers were "not fit to 
tote guts to a bear". On December 9, 1862, Sergeant Edwin H& 
Fay, an unusual Louisianan who held A&B& and M&A& degrees 
from Harvard University and who before the war was headmaster of a 
private school for boys in Louisiana, wrote his wife: "I saw Pemberton 
and he is the most insignificant puke I ever saw **h. His head 
cannot contain enough sense to command a regiment, much less a corps 
**h. Jackson **h runs first and his Cavalry are well drilled to follow 
their leader. He is not worth shucks. But he is a West Point 
graduate and therefore must be born to command".   Similar comments 
about officers are to be found in the letters of Northern soldiers. 
A Massachusetts soldier, who seems to have been a Civil War 
version of Bill Mauldin, wrote: "The officers consider themselves 
as made of a different material from the low fellows in the ranks 
**h. They get all the glory and most of the pay and don't earn ten 
cents apiece on the average, the drunken rascals". Private George 
Gray Hunter of Pennsylvania wrote: "I am well convinced in My 
own Mind that had it not been for officers this war would have ended 
long ago". Another Yankee became so disgusted as to state: "I 
wish to God one half of our officers were knocked in the head by slinging 
them against [the other half]".   No group of officers 
came in for more spirited denunciation than the doctors. One Federal 
soldier wrote: "The docters is no a conte **h hell will be filde 
with do[c]ters and offersey when this war is over". Shortly after 
the beginning of Sherman's Georgia campaign, an ailing Yank 
wrote his homefolk: "The surgeon insisted on Sending me to the hospital 
for treatment. I insisted on takeing the field and prevailed- 
thinking that I had better die by rebel bullets than [by] Union 
quackery".   The attitudes which the Rebs and Yanks took toward 
each other were very much the same and ranged over the same gamut 
of feeling, from friendliness to extreme hatred. The Rebs were, to 
a Massachusetts corporal, "fighting madmen or not men at all but whiskey 
+ gunpowder put into a human frame". A Pennsylvania soldier 
wrote that "they were the hardest looking set of men that Ever i saw 
they Looked as if they had been fed on vinegar and shavings **h". 
Private Jenkins Lloyd Jones of the Wisconsin Light Artillery wrote 
in his diary: "I strolled among the Alabamans on the right 
**h found some of the greenest specimens of humanity I think in the universe 
their ignorance being little less than the slave they despise 
with as imperfect a dialect 'They Recooned as how you'uns all would 
be a heap wus to we'uns all'". In a similar vein, but writing 
from the opposite side, Thomas Taylor, a private in the 6th Alabama 
Volunteers, in a letter to his wife, stated: "You know that 
my heart is with you but I never could have been satisfied to have staid 
at home when my country is invaded by a thievin foe By a set of 
cowardly Skunks whose Motto is Booty **h. 
THE POPULARITY OF FOLKLORE IN AMERICA STANDS IN DIRECT PROPORTION 
to the popularity of nationalism in America. And the emphasis on nationalism 
in America is in proportion to the growth of American influence 
across the world. Thus, if we are to observe American folklore 
in the twentieth century, we will do well to establish the relationships 
between folklore, nationalism and imperialism at the outset.

Historians have come to recognize two cardinal facts concerning nationalism 
and international influence. 1) Every age rewrites the events 
of its history in terms of what should have been, creating legends 
about itself that rationalize contemporary beliefs and excuse contemporary 
actions. What actually occurred in the past is seldom as important 
as what a given generation feels must have occurred. 2) As a country 
superimposes its cultural and political attitudes on others, it searches 
its heritage in hopes of justifying its aggressiveness. Its folklore 
and legend, usually disguised as history, are allowed to account 
for group actions, to provide a focal point for group loyalty, and to 
become a cohesive force for national identification.   One can apply 
these facts to Britain in the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries 
as she spread her dominion over palm and pine, and they can be 
applied again to the United States in more recent years. The popularity 
of local color literature before the Spanish-American War, the 
steady currency of the Lincoln myth, the increased emphasis on the 
frontier west in our mass media are cases in point. Nor is it an accident 
that baseball, growing into the national game in the last 75 years, 
has become a microcosm of American life, that learned societies such 
as the American Folklore Society and the American Historical 
Association were founded in the 1880s, or that courses in American literature, 
American civilization, American anything have swept our school 
and college curricula.   Of course, nationalism has really 
outlived its usefulness in a country as world-oriented as ours, and its 
continued existence reflects one of the major culture lags of the 
twentieth-century 
United States. Yet nationalism has lost few of its 
charms for the historian, writer or man in the street. It is an understandable 
paradox that most American history and most American literature 
is today written from an essentially egocentric and isolationistic 
point of view at the very time America is spreading her dominion 
over palm and pine. After all, the average American as he lies and 
waits for the enemy in Korea or as she scans the newspaper in some vain 
hope of personal contact with the front is unconcerned that his or 
her plight is the result of a complex of personal, economic and governmental 
actions far beyond the normal citizen's comprehension and control. 
Anyone's identification with an international struggle, whether 
warlike or peaceful, requires absurd oversimplification and intense 
emotional involvement. Such identification comes for each group in each 
crisis by rewriting history into legend and developing appropriate 
national heroes.   In America, such self-deception has served 
a particularly useful purpose. A heterogeneous people have needed it 
to attain an element of cultural and political cohesion in a new and 
ever-changing 
land. But we must never forget, most of the appropriate 
heroes and their legends were created overnight, to answer immediate needs, 
almost always with conscious aims and ends. Parson Weems's George 
Washington became the symbol of honesty and the father image of 
the uniting States. Abraham Lincoln emerged as an incarnation of 
the national Constitution. Robert E& Lee represented the dignity 
needed by a rebelling confederacy. And their roles are paralleled by 
those of Patrick Henry, Nathan Hale, Andrew Jackson, Davy Crockett, 
Theodore Roosevelt and many, many more.   Therefore, the 
scholar, as he looks at our national folklore of the last 60 years, 
will be mindful of two facts. 1) Most of the legends that are created 
to fan the fires of patriotism are essentially propagandistic and are 
not folk legends at all. 2) The concept that an "American national 
folklore" exists is itself probably another propagandistic legend.

Folklore is individually created art that a homogeneous group 
of people preserve, vary and recreate through oral transmission. It 
has come to mean myths, legends, tales, songs, proverbs, riddles, superstitions, 
rhymes and such literary forms of expression. Related to 
written literature, and often remaining temporarily frozen in written 
form, it loses its vitality when transcribed or removed from its oral 
existence. Though it may exist in either literate or illiterate societies, 
it assumes a role of true cultural importance only in the latter.

In its propagandistic and commercial haste to discover our 
folk heritage, the public has remained ignorant of definitions such as 
this. Enthusiastically, Americans have swept subliterary and bogus 
materials like Paul Bunyan tales, Abe Lincoln anecdotes and labor 
union songs up as true products of our American oral tradition. Nor 
have we remembered that in the melting pot of America the hundreds of 
isolated and semi-isolated ethnic, regional and occupational groups did 
not fuse into a homogeneous national unit until long after education 
and industrialization 
had caused them to cast oral tradition aside as 
a means of carrying culturally significant material.   Naturally, 
such scholarly facts are of little concern to the man trying to make 
money or fan patriotism by means of folklore. That much of what he 
calls folklore is the result of beliefs carefully sown among the people 
with the conscious aim of producing a desired mass emotional reaction 
to a particular situation or set of situations is irrelevant. As long 
as his material is Americana, can in some way be ascribed to the masses 
and appears "democratic" to his audience, he remains satisfied.

From all this we can now see that two streams of development 
run through the history of twentieth-century American folklore. On 
the one side we have the university professors and their students, trained 
in Teutonic methods of research, who have sought out, collected 
and studied the true products of the oral traditions of the ethnic, 
regional and occupational groups that make up this nation. On the other 
we have the flag-wavers and the national sentimentalists who have been 
willing to use any patriotic, "frontier western" or colonial material 
willy-nilly. Unfortunately, few of the artists (writers, movie 
producers, dramatists and musicians) who have used American folklore 
since 1900 have known enough to distinguish between the two streams 
even in the most general of ways. After all, the field is large, difficult 
to define and seldom taught properly to American undergraduates. 
In addition, this country has been settled by many peoples of many 
heritages and their lore has become acculturated slowly, in an age of 
print and easy communication, within an ever-expanding and changing society. 
The problems confuse even the experts.   For that matter, 
the experts themselves are a mixed breed. Anthropologists, housewives, 
historians and such by profession, they approach their discipline 
as amateurs, collectors, commercial propagandists, analysts or some combination 
of the four. They have widely varying backgrounds and aims. 
They have little "esprit de corps".   The outlook for the 
amateur, for instance, is usually dependent on his fondness for local 
history or for the picturesque. His love of folklore has romanticism 
in it, and he doesn't care much about the dollar-sign or the footnote. 
Folklore is his hobby, and he, all too rightly, wishes it to remain 
as such. The amateur is closely related to the collector, who is 
actually no more than the amateur who has taken to the field. The collector 
enjoys the contact with rural life; he hunts folklore for the 
very "field and stream" reasons that many persons hunt game; and 
only rarely is he acutely concerned with the meaning of what he has 
located. Fundamentally, both these types, the amateur and the collector, 
are uncritical and many of them don't distinguish well between 
real folklore and bogus material.   But there are also the commercial 
propagandists and the analysts- one dominated by money, the other 
by nineteenth-century German scholarship. Both are primarily concerned 
with the uses that can be made of the material that the collector 
has found. Both shudder at the thought of proceeding too far beyond 
the sewage system and the electric light lines. The commercial propagandist, 
who can't afford to be critical, gets along well with the 
amateur, from whom he feeds, but he frequently steps on the analyst's 
toes by refusing to keep his material genuine. His standards are, 
of course, completely foreign to those of the analyst. To both the amateur 
and the commercial progandist the analyst lacks a soul, lacks appreciation 
with his endless probings and classifications. Dominated by 
the vicious circle of the university promotion system, the analyst looks 
down on and gets along poorly with the other three groups, although 
he cannot deny his debt to the collector.   The knowledge that 
most Americans have of folklore comes through contact with commercial 
propagandists and a few energetic amateurs and collectors. The work 
done by the analysts, the men who really know what folklore is all about, 
has no more appeal than any other work of a truly scientific sort 
and reaches a limited, learned audience. Publishers want books that 
will sell, recording studios want discs that will not seem strange to 
ears used to hillbilly and jazz music, grade and high schools want quaint, 
but moral, material. The analyst is apt to be too honest to fit 
in. As a result, most people don't have more than a vague idea what 
folklore actually is; they see it as a potpourri of charming, moral 
legends and patriotic anecdotes, with a superstition or remedy thrown 
in here and there. And so well is such ignorance preserved by the amateur 
and the money-maker that even at the college level most of the 
hundred-odd folklore courses given in the United States survive on sentiment 
and nationalism alone.   If one wishes to discuss a literary 
figure who uses folklore in his work, the first thing he must realize 
is that the literary figure is probably part of this ignorant American 
public. And while every writer must be dealt with as a special 
case, the interested student will want to ask himself a number of questions 
about each. Does the writer know the difference between an "ersatz" 
ballad or tall tale and a true product of the folk? When 
the writer uses material does he tamper with it to improve its commercial 
effect or does he leave it pure? Is the writer propagandistic? 
Is he swept away by sentiment and nostalgia for an America that was? 
Or does he sincerely want to tap the real springs of American 
attitude and culture regardless of how unpopular and embarrassing they 
may be?   When he gets the answers to his questions he will be 
discouraged. In the first place, a good many writers who are said to 
use folklore, do not, unless one counts an occasional superstition or 
tale. Robert Frost, for instance, writes about rural life in New England, 
but he does not include any significant amount of folklore in 
his poems. This has not, however, prevented publishers from labeling 
him a "folk poet", simply because he is a rural one. In the second 
place, a large number of writers, making a more direct claim than Frost 
to being "folk writers" of one sort or another, clearly make 
no distinctions between genuine and bogus material. Stephen Vincent 
Benet's <John Brown's Body> comes immediately to mind in this 
connection, as does John Steinbeck's <The Grapes of Wrath> 
and Carl Sandburg's <The People, Yes>. The last two writers 
introduce strong political bias into their works, and not unlike the union 
leaders that we will discuss soon, see folklore as a reservoir of 
protest by a downtrodden and publically silenced mass. Folklore, as 
used by such writers, really reflects images engraved into it by the very 
person using it. The folk are simply not homogeneous with respect 
to nation or political attitude. In fact, there is much evidence to 
indicate they don't care a bit about anything beyond their particular 
regional, ethnic and occupational limits. Nevertheless, with a reading 
public that longs for the "good old days" and with an awareness 
of our expanding international interests, it is easy for the Benets 
to obtain a magnified position in literature by use of all sorts of 
Americana, real or fake, and it is easy for the Steinbecks and Sandburgs 
to support their messages of reform by reading messages of reform 
into the minds of the folk. 
As part of the same arrangement, Torrio had, in the spirit of peace 
and good will, and in exchange for armed support in the April election 
campaign, bestowed upon O'Banion a third share in the Hawthorne 
Smoke Shop proceeds and a cut in the Cicero beer trade. The coalition 
was to prove inadvisable.   O'Banion was a complex and frightening 
man, whose bright blue eyes stared with a kind of frozen candour 
into others'. He had a round, frank Irish face, creased in a 
jovial grin that stayed bleakly in place even when he was pumping bullets 
into someone's body. He carried three guns- one in the right 
trouser pocket, one under his left armpit, one in the left outside coat 
pocket- and was equally lethal with both hands. He killed accurately, 
freely, and dispassionately. The police credited him with twenty-five 
murders but he was never brought to trial for one of them. 
Like a fair number of bootleggers he disliked alcohol. He was an expert 
florist, tenderly dextrous in the arrangement of bouquets and wreaths. 
He had no apparent comprehension of morality; he divided humanity 
into "right guys" and "wrong guys", and the wrong ones he 
was always willing to kill and trample under. He had what was described 
by a psychologist as a "sunny brutality". He walked with a heavy 
list to the right, as that leg was four inches shorter than the other, 
but the lurch did not reduce his feline quickness with his guns. Landesco 
thought him "just a superior sort of plugugly" but he was, 
in fact, with his aggression and hostility, and nerveless indifference 
to risking or administering pain, a casebook psychopath. He was also 
at this time, although not so interwoven in high politics and the rackets 
as Torrio and Capone, the most powerful and most dangerous mob 
leader in the Chicago underworld, the roughneck king.   O'Banion 
was born in poverty, the son of an immigrant Irish plasterer, 
in the North Side's Little Hell, close by the Sicilian quarter 
and Death Corner. He had been a choir boy at the Holy Name Cathedral 
and also served as an acolyte to Father O'Brien. The influence 
of Mass was less pervasive than that of the congested, slum tenements 
among the bawdy houses, honkytonks, and sawdust saloons of his birthplace; 
he ran wild with the child gangs of the neighbourhood, and 
went through the normal pressure-cooker course of thieving, police-dodging, 
and housebreaking. At the age of ten, when he was working as 
a newsboy in the Loop, he was knocked down by a streetcar which resulted 
in his permanently shortened leg. Because of this he was known as 
Gimpy (but, as with Capone and his nickname of Scarface, never in 
his presence). In his teens O'Banion was enrolled in the vicious 
Market Street gang and he became a singing waiter in McGovern's 
Cafe, a notoriously low and rowdy dive in North Clark Street, where 
befuddled customers were methodically looted of their money by the singing 
waiters before being thrown out. He then got a job with the Chicago 
<Herald-Examiner> as a circulation slugger, a rough fighter 
employed to see that his paper's news pitches were not trespassed upon 
by rival vendors. He was also at the same time gaining practical 
experience as a safe breaker and highwayman, and learning how to shoot 
to kill from a Neanderthal convicted murderer named Gene Geary, later 
committed to Chester Asylum as a homicidal maniac, but whose eyes 
misted with tears when the young Dion sang a ballad about an Irish 
mother in his clear and syrupy tenor.   O'Banion's first conflict 
with the police came in 1909, at seventeen, when he was committed 
to Bridewell Prison for three months for burglary; two years 
later he served another three months for assault. Those were his only 
interludes behind bars, although he collected four more charges on his 
police record in 1921 and 1922, three for burglary and one for robbery. 
But by now O'Banion's political pull was beginning to be effective. 
On the occasion of his 1922 indictment the $10,000 bond was 
furnished by an alderman, and the charge was <nolle prossed>. On one 
of his 1921 ventures he was actually come upon by a Detective Sergeant 
John J& Ryan down on his knees with a tool embedded in a labour 
office safe in the Postal Telegraph Building; the jury wanted 
better evidence than that and he was acquitted, at a cost of $30,000 
in bribes, it was estimated. As promptly as Torrio, O'Banion jumped 
into bootlegging. He conducted it with less diplomacy and more spontaneous 
violence than the Sicilians, but he had his huge North Side 
portion to exploit and he made a great deal of money. Unlike the 
Sicilians, he additionally conducted holdups, robberies, and safe-cracking 
expeditions, and refused to touch prostitution. He was also personally 
active in ward politics, and by 1924 O'Banion had acquired 
sufficient political might to be able to state: "I always deliver 
my borough as per requirements".   But whose requirements? 
Until 1924 O'Banion pistoleers and knuckle-duster bullyboys had 
kept his North Side domain solidly Democratic. There was a question-and-answer 
gag that went around at that time: Q& "Who'll 
carry the Forty-second and Forty-third wards"? A& "O'Banion, 
in his pistol pocket". But as November 1924 drew close the Democratic 
hierarchy 
was sorely troubled by grapevine reports that O'Banion 
was being wooed by the opposition, and was meeting and conferring 
with important Republicans. To forestall any change of allegiance, 
the Democrats hastily organised a testimonial banquet for O'Banion, 
as public reward for his past services and as a reminder of where 
his loyalties lay.   The reception was held in a private dining 
room of the Webster Hotel on Lincoln Park West. It was an interesting 
fraternisation of ex-convicts, union racketeers, ward heelers, 
sold-out officials, and gunmen. The guest list is in itself a little 
parable of the state of American civic life at this time. It included 
the top O'Banion men and Chief of Detectives Michael Hughes.

When Mayor Dever heard of the banquet he summoned Hughes 
for an explanation of why he had been dishonouring the police department 
by consorting with these felons and fixers. Hughes said that he had 
understood the party was to be in honour of Jerry O'Connor, the 
proprieter of a Loop gambling house. "But when I arrived and recognised 
a number of notorious characters I had thrown into the detective 
bureau basement half a dozen times, I knew I had been framed, and 
withdrew almost at once".   In fact, O'Connor was honoured 
during the ceremony with the presentation of a $2500 diamond stickpin. 
There was a brief interruption while one of O'Banion's men 
jerked out both his guns and threatened to shoot a waiter who was pestering 
him for a tip. Then O'Banion was presented with a platinum 
watch set with rubies and diamonds.   This dinner was the start 
of a new blatancy in the relationship between the gangs and the politicians, 
which, prior to 1924, says Pasley, "had been maintained with 
more or less stealth", but which henceforth was marked by these ostentatious 
gatherings, denounced by a clergyman as "Belshazzar feasts", 
at which "politicians fraternized cheek by jowl with gangsters, 
openly, in the big downtown hotels". Pasley continued: "They 
became an institution of the Chicago scene and marked the way to the 
moral and financial collapse of the municipal and county governments 
in 1928-29".   However, this inaugural feast did its sponsors 
no good whatever. O'Banion accepted his platinum watch and the tributes 
to his loyalty, and proceeded with the bigger and better Republican 
deal. On Election Day- November 4- he energetically marshalled 
his force of bludgeon men, bribers, and experts in forging repeat 
votes. The result was a landslide for the Republican candidates.

This further demonstration of O'Banion's ballooning power 
did not please Torrio and Capone. In the past year there had been 
too many examples of his euphoric self-confidence and self-aggrandisement 
for their liking. He behaved publicly with a cocky, swaggering truculence 
that offended their vulpine Latin minds, and behaved towards 
them personally with an unimpressed insolence that enraged them beneath 
their blandness. They were disturbed by his idiotic bravado- as, 
when his bodyguard, Yankee Schwartz, complained that he had been snubbed 
by Dave Miller, a prize-fight referee, chieftain of a Jewish 
gang and one of four brothers of tough reputation, who were Hirschey, 
a gambler-politician in loose beer-running league with Torrio and O'Banion, 
Frank, a policeman, and Max, the youngest. To settle this 
slight, O'Banion went down to the La Salle Theatre in the Loop, 
where, he had learned, Dave Miller was attending the opening of 
a musical comedy. At the end of the performance, Dave and Max came 
out into the brilliantly lit foyer among a surge of gowned and tuxedoed 
first nighters. O'Banion drew his guns and fired at Dave, severely 
wounding him in the stomach. A second bullet ricocheted off Max's 
belt buckle, leaving him unhurt but in some distress. O'Banion 
tucked away his gun and walked out of the theatre; he was neither 
prosecuted nor even arrested. That sort of braggadocio, for that sort 
of reason, in the view of Torrio and Capone, was a nonsense. 
A further example of the incompatible difference in personalities was 
when two policemen held up a Torrio beer convoy on a West Side street 
and demanded $300 to let it through. One of the beer-runners telephoned 
O'Banion- on a line tapped by the detective bureau- and 
reported the situation. O'Banion's reaction was: "Three hundred 
dollars! To them bums? Why, I can get them knocked off for 
half that much". Upon which the detective bureau despatched rifle 
squads to prevent trouble if O'Banion should send his gunmen out 
to deal with the hijacking policemen. But in the meantime the beer-runner, 
unhappy with this solution, telephoned Torrio and returned to 
O'Banion with the message: "Say, Dionie, I just been talking 
to Johnny, and he said to let them cops have the three hundred. He 
says he don't want no trouble".   But Torrio and Capone had 
graver cause to hate and distrust the Irishman. For three years, 
since the liquor territorial conference, Torrio had, with his elastic 
patience, and because he knew that retaliation could cause only violent 
warfare and disaster to business, tolerated O'Banion's impudent 
double-crossing. They had suffered, in sulky silence, the sight of 
his sharp practice in Cicero.   When, as a diplomatic gesture 
of amity and in payment for the loan of gunmen in the April election, 
Torrio had given O'Banion a slice of Cicero, the profits from 
that district had been $20,000 a month. In six months O'Banion had 
boosted the profits to $100,000 a month- mainly by bringing pressure 
to bear on fifty Chicago speak-easy proprietors to shift out to the 
suburb. These booze customers had until then been buying their supplies 
from the Sheldon, Saltis-McErlane, and Druggan-Lake gangs, 
and now they were competing for trade with the Torrio-Capone saloons; 
once again O'Banion's brash recklessness had caused a proliferation 
of ill will. The revenue from O'Banion's Cicero territory 
went up still higher, until the yield was more than the Torrio-Capone 
takings from the far bigger trade area of Chicago's South and 
West Sides. But he still showed no intention of sharing with the 
syndicate. At last, even the controlled Torrio was unable to hold still, 
and he tentatively suggested that O'Banion should take a percentage 
in the Stickney brothels in return for one from his Cicero beer 
concession. O'Banion's reply was a raucous laugh and a flat refusal.

Still more jealous bitterness was engendered by the O'Banion 
gang's seizure from a West Side marshalling yard of a freight-car 
load of Canadian whisky worth $100,000 and by one of the biggest 
coups of the Prohibition era- the Sibley warehouse robbery, 
which became famous for the cool brazenness of the operation. Here was 
stored $1,000,000 worth of bonded whisky. These 1750 cases were carted 
off in a one-night operation by the O'Banion men, who left in 
their stead the same number of barrels filled with water.

A tsunami may be started by a sea bottom slide, an earthquake 
or a volcanic eruption. The most infamous of all was launched by the 
explosion of the island of Krakatoa in 1883; it raced across the Pacific 
at 300 miles an hour, devastated the coasts of Java and Sumatra 
with waves 100 to 130 feet high, and pounded the shore as far away 
as San Francisco.   The ancient Greeks recorded several catastrophic 
inundations by huge waves. Whether or not Plato's tale of 
the lost continent of Atlantis is true, skeptics concede that the myth 
may have some foundation in a great tsunami of ancient times. Indeed, 
a tremendously destructive tsunami that arose in the Arabian Sea 
in 1945 has even revived the interest of geologists and archaeologists 
in the Biblical story of the Flood.   One of the most damaging 
tsunami on record followed the famous Lisbon earthquake of November 
1, 1755; its waves persisted for a week and were felt as far away 
as the English coast. Tsunami are rare, however, in the Atlantic 
Ocean; they are far more common in the Pacific. Japan has had 15 
destructive ones (eight of them disastrous) since 1596. The Hawaiian 
Islands are struck severely an average of once every 25 years.

In 1707 an earthquake in Japan generated waves so huge that they piled 
into the Inland Sea; one wave swamped more than 1,000 ships and 
boats in Osaka Bay. A tsunami in the Hawaiian Islands in 1869 
washed away an entire town (Ponoluu), leaving only two forlorn trees 
standing where the community had been. In 1896 a Japanese tsunami killed 
27,000 people and swept away 10,000 homes.   The dimensions 
of these waves dwarf all our usual standards of measurement. An ordinary 
sea wave is rarely more than a few hundred feet long from crest to 
crest- no longer than 320 feet in the Atlantic or 1,000 feet in the 
Pacific. But a tsunami often extends more than 100 miles and sometimes 
as much as 600 miles from crest to crest. While a wind wave never 
travels at more than 60 miles per hour, the velocity of a tsunami in 
the open sea must be reckoned in hundreds of miles per hour. The greater 
the depth of the water, the greater is the speed of the wave; 
Lagrange's law says that its velocity is equal to the square root of 
the product of the depth times the acceleration due to gravity. In 
the deep waters of the Pacific these waves reach a speed of 500 miles 
per hour.   Tsunami are so shallow in comparison with their length 
that in the open ocean they are hardly detectable. Their amplitude 
sometimes is as little as two feet from trough to crest. Usually it 
is only when they approach shallow water on the shore that they build 
up to their terrifying heights. On the fateful day in 1896 when the 
great waves approached Japan, fishermen at sea noticed no unusual swells. 
Not until they sailed home at the end of the day, through a sea 
strewn with bodies and the wreckage of houses, were they aware of what 
had happened. The seemingly quiet ocean had crashed a wall of water 
from 10 to 100 feet high upon beaches crowded with bathers, drowning 
thousands of them and flattening villages along the shore.   The 
giant waves are more dangerous on flat shores than on steep ones. They 
usually range from 20 to 60 feet in height, but when they pour into 
a ~V-shaped inlet or harbor they may rise to mountainous proportions.

Generally the first salvo of a tsunami is a rather sharp swell, 
not different enough from an ordinary wave to alarm casual observers. 
This is followed by a tremendous suck of water away from the shore 
as the first great trough arrives. Reefs are left high and dry, and 
the beaches are covered with stranded fish. At Hilo large numbers 
of people ran out to inspect the amazing spectacle of the denuded beach. 
Many of them paid for their curiosity with their lives, for some 
minutes later the first giant wave roared over the shore. After an earthquake 
in Japan in 1793 people on the coast at Tugaru were so terrified 
by the extraordinary ebbing of the sea that they scurried to higher 
ground. When a second quake came, they dashed back to the beach, 
fearing that they might be buried under landslides. Just as they reached 
the shore, the first huge wave crashed upon them.   A tsunami 
is not a single wave but a series. The waves are separated by intervals 
of 15 minutes to an hour or more (because of their great length), 
and this has often lulled people into thinking after the first great 
wave has crashed that it is all over. The waves may keep coming for many 
hours. Usually the third to the eighth waves in the series are the 
biggest.   Among the observers of the 1946 tsunami at Hilo was 
Francis P& Shepard of the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, 
one of the world's foremost marine geologists. He was able to make 
a detailed inspection of the waves. Their onrush and retreat, he reported, 
was accompanied by a great hissing, roaring and rattling. The 
third and fourth waves seemed to be the highest. On some of the islands' 
beaches the waves came in gently; they were steepest on the 
shores facing the direction of the seaquake from which the waves had come. 
In Hilo Bay they were from 21 to 26 feet high. The highest waves, 
55 feet, occurred at Pololu Valley.   Scientists and fishermen 
have occasionally seen strange by-products of the phenomenon. During 
a 1933 tsunami in Japan the sea glowed brilliantly at night. The 
luminosity of the water is now believed to have been caused by the 
stimulation of vast numbers of the luminescent organism <Noctiluca miliaris> 
by the turbulence of the sea. Japanese fishermen have sometimes 
observed that sardines hauled up in their nets during a tsunami have 
enormously swollen stomachs; the fish have swallowed vast numbers 
of bottom-living diatoms, raised to the surface by the disturbance. The 
waves of a 1923 tsunami in Sagami Bay brought to the surface and 
battered to death huge numbers of fishes that normally live at a depth 
of 3,000 feet. Gratified fishermen hauled them in by the thousands.

The tsunami-warning system developed since the 1946 disaster in 
Hawaii relies mainly on a simple and ingenious instrument devised 
by Commander C& K& Green of the Coast and Geodetic Survey staff. 
It consists of a series of pipes and a pressure-measuring chamber 
which record the rise and fall of the water surface. Ordinary water 
tides are disregarded. But when waves with a period of between 10 and 
40 minutes begin to roll over the ocean, they set in motion a corresponding 
oscillation in a column of mercury which closes an electric circuit. 
This in turn sets off an alarm, notifying the observers at the 
station that a tsunami is in progress. Such equipment has been installed 
at Hilo, Midway, Attu and Dutch Harbor. The moment the alarm 
goes off, information is immediately forwarded to Honolulu, which 
is the center of the warning system.   This center also receives 
prompt reports on earthquakes from four Coast Survey stations in the 
Pacific which are equipped with seismographs. Its staff makes a preliminary 
determination of the epicenter of the quake and alerts tide 
stations near the epicenter for a tsunami. By means of charts showing 
wave-travel times and depths in the ocean at various locations, it is 
possible to estimate the rate of approach and probable time of arrival 
at Hawaii of a tsunami getting under way at any spot in the Pacific. 
The civil and military authorities are then advised of the danger, 
and they issue warnings and take all necessary protective steps. All 
of these activities are geared to a top-priority communication system, 
and practice tests have been held to assure that everything will work 
smoothly.   Since the 1946 disaster there have been 15 tsunami 
in the Pacific, but only one was of any consequence. On November 4, 
1952, an earthquake occurred under the sea off the Kamchatka Peninsula. 
At 17:07 that afternoon (Greenwich time) the shock was recorded 
by the seismograph alarm in Honolulu. The warning system immediately 
went into action. Within about an hour with the help of reports 
from seismic stations in Alaska, Arizona and California, the quake's 
epicenter was placed at 51 degrees North latitude and 158 degrees 
East longitude. While accounts of the progress of the tsunami came 
in from various points in the Pacific (Midway reported it was covered 
with nine feet of water), the Hawaiian station made its calculations 
and notified the military services and the police that the first big 
wave would arrive at Honolulu at 23:30 Greenwich time.   It 
turned out that the waves were not so high as in 1946. They hurled a 
cement barge against a freighter in Honolulu Harbor, knocked down telephone 
lines, marooned automobiles, flooded lawns, killed six cows. 
But not a single human life was lost, and property damage in the Hawaiian 
Islands did not exceed $800,000. There is little doubt that the 
warning system saved lives and reduced the damage.   But it is 
plain that a warning system, however efficient, is not enough. In the 
vulnerable areas of the Pacific there should be restrictions against 
building homes on exposed coasts, or at least a requirement that they 
be either raised off the ground or anchored strongly against waves. 
##

The key to the world of geology is change; nothing remains the 
same. Life has evolved from simple combinations of molecules in the 
sea to complex combinations in man. The land, too, is changing, and 
earthquakes are daily reminders of this. Earthquakes result when movements 
in the earth twist rocks until they break. Sometimes this is accompanied 
by visible shifts of the ground surface; often the shifts 
cannot be seen, but they are there; and everywhere can be found scars 
of earlier breaks once deeply buried. Today's earthquakes are most 
numerous in belts where the earth's restlessness is presently concentrated, 
but scars of the past show that there is no part of the earth 
that has not had them.   The effects of earthquakes on civilization 
have been widely publicized, even overemphasized. The role of 
an earthquake in starting the destruction of whole cities is tremendously 
frightening, but fire may actually be the principal agent in a particular 
disaster. Superstition has often blended with fact to color reports.

We have learned from earthquakes much of what we now know 
about the earth's interior, for they send waves through the earth 
which emerge with information about the materials through which they 
have traveled. These waves have shown that 1,800 miles below the surface 
a liquid core begins, and that it, in turn, has a solid inner core.

Earthquakes originate as far as 400 miles below the surface, 
but they do not occur at greater depths. Two unsolved mysteries are 
based on these facts. (1) As far down as 400 miles below the surface 
the material should be hot enough to be plastic and adjust itself to 
twisting forces by sluggish flow rather than by breaking, as rigid surface 
rocks do. (2) If earthquakes do occur at such depths, why not deeper?

Knowledge gained from studying earthquake waves has been 
applied in various fields. In the search for oil and gas, we make 
similar waves under controlled conditions with dynamite and learn from 
them where there are buried rock structures favorable to the accumulation 
of these resources. We have also developed techniques for recognizing 
and locating underground nuclear tests through the waves in the 
ground which they generate.   The following discussion of this subject 
has been adapted from the book {Causes of Catastrophe} by 
L& Don Leet. 

#THE RESTLESS EARTH AND ITS INTERIOR#

<At twelve 
minutes after five on the morning of Wednesday>, April 18, 1906, 
San Francisco was shaken by a severe earthquake. A sharp tremor 
was followed by a jerky roll.

{IN} Ireland's County Limerick, near the River 
Shannon, there is a quiet little suburb by the name of Garryowen, which 
means "Garden of Owen". Undoubtedly none of the residents realize 
the influence their town has had on American military history, 
or the deeds of valor that have been done in its name. The cry "Garryowen"! 
bursting from the lips of a charging cavalry trooper was 
the last sound heard on this earth by untold numbers of Cheyennes, 
Sioux and Apaches, Mexican <banditos> under Pancho Villa, Japanese 
in the South Pacific, and Chinese and North Korean Communists 
in Korea. Garryowen is the battle cry of the 7th U& S& Cavalry 
Regiment, "The Fighting Seventh".   Today a battle 
cry may seem an anachronism, for in the modern Army, <esprit de corps> 
has been sacrificed to organizational charts and tables. But don't 
tell that to a veteran of the Fighting Seventh, especially in a 
saloon on Saturday night.   Of all the thousands of men who have 
served in the 7th Cav, perhaps no one knows its spirit better than 
Lieutenant Colonel Melbourne C& Chandler. Wiry and burr-headed, 
with steel blue eyes and a chest splattered with medals, Chandler 
is the epitome of the old-time trooper. The truth is, however, that 
when Mel Chandler first reported to the regiment the only steed he 
had ever ridden 
was a swivel chair and the only weapon he had ever wielded 
was a pencil.   Chandler had been commissioned in the Medical 
Service Corps and was serving as a personnel officer for the Kansas 
City Medical Depot when he decided that if he was going to make 
the Army his career, he wanted to be in the fighting part of it. Though 
he knew no more about military science and tactics than any other 
desk officer, he managed to get transferred to the combat forces. The 
next thing he knew he was reporting for duty as commanding officer 
of Troop ~H, 7th Cavalry, in the middle of corps maneuvers in Japan.

Outside of combat, he couldn't have landed in a tougher 
spot. First of all, no unit likes to have a new ~CO brought in from 
the outside, especially when he's an armchair trooper. Second, 
if there is ever a perfect time to pull the rug out from under him, it's 
on maneuvers. In combat, helping your ~CO make a fool of himself 
might mean getting yourself killed. But in maneuvers, with the top 
brass watching him all the time, it's easy.   Chandler understood 
this and expected the worst. But his first few days with Troop 
~H were full of surprises, beginning with First Sergeant Robert 
Early. Chandler had expected a tough old trooper with a gravel voice. 
Instead Sergeant Early was quiet, sharp and confident. He had 
enlisted in the Army straight out of high school and had immediately 
set about learning his new trade. There was no weapon Early could not 
take apart and reassemble blind-folded. He could lead a patrol and 
he knew his paper work. Further, he had taken full advantage of the Army's 
correspondence courses. He not only knew soldiering, but mathematics, 
history and literature as well.   But for all his erudite 
confidence, Sergeant Early was right out of the Garryowen mold. 
He was filled with the spirit of the Fighting Seventh. That saved 
Mel Chandler. Sergeant Early let the new ~CO know just how lucky 
he was to be in the best troop in the best regiment in the United 
States Army. He fed the captain bits of history about the troops and 
the regiment. For example, it was a battalion of the 7th Cavalry 
under Colonel George Armstrong Custer that had been wiped out at the 
Battle of The Little Big Horn.   It didn't take Captain 
Chandler long to realize that he had to carry a heavy load of tradition 
on his shoulders as commander of Troop ~H. But what made the 
load lighter was the realization that every officer, non-com and trooper 
was ready and willing to help him carry it, for the good of the troop 
and the regiment.   Maneuvers over, the 7th returned to garrison 
duty in Tokyo, Captain Chandler still with them. It was the 
7th Cavalry whose troopers were charged with guarding the Imperial 
Palace of the Emperor. But still Mel Chandler was not completely 
convinced that men would really die for a four-syllable word, "Garryowen". 
The final proof was a small incident.   It happened 
at the St& Patrick's Day party, a big affair for a regiment which 
had gone into battle for over three-quarters of a century to the strains 
of an Irish march. In the middle of the party Chandler looked 
up to see four smiling faces bearing down upon him, each beaming above 
the biggest, greenest shamrock he had ever seen. The faces belonged 
to Lieutenant Marvin Goulding, his wife and their two children. And 
when the singing began, it was the Gouldings who sang the old Irish 
songs the best.   Though there was an occasional good-natured 
chuckle about Marvin Goulding, the Jewish officer from Chicago, 
singing tearfully about the ould sod, no one really thought it was strange. 
For Marvin Goulding, like Giovanni Martini, the bugler boy 
who carried Custer's last message, or Margarito Lopez, the one-man 
Army on Leyte, was a Garryowen, through and through. It was no 
coincidence 
that Goulding was one of the most beloved platoon leaders 
in the regiment.   And so Mel Chandler got the spirit of Garryowen. 
He set out to keep Troop ~H the best troop in the best regiment. 
One of his innovations was to see to it that every man- cook 
and clerk as well as rifleman- qualified with every weapon in the 
troop. Even the mess sergeant, Bill Brown, a dapper, cocky transfer 
from an airborne division, went out on the range.   The troop received 
a new leader, Lieutenant Robert M& Carroll, fresh out of 
~ROTC and bucking for Regular Army status. Carroll was sharp 
and military, but he was up against tough competition for that ~RA 
berth, and he wanted to play it cool. So Mel Chandler set out to 
sell him on the spirit of Garryowen, just as he himself had been sold 
a short time before.   When the Korean war began, on June 25, 
1950, the anniversary of the day Custer had gone down fighting at the 
Little Big Horn and the day the regiment had assaulted the beachhead 
of Leyte during World War /2,, the 7th Cavalry was not in the 
best fighting condition. Its entire complement of non-commissioned 
officers on the platoon level had departed as cadre for another unit, 
and its vehicles were still those used in the drive across Luzon in World 
War /2,.   Just a month after the Korean War broke out, 
the 7th Cavalry was moving into the lines, ready for combat. From 
then on the Fighting Seventh was in the thick of the bitterest fighting 
in Korea.   One night on the Naktong River, Mel Chandler 
called on that fabled <esprit de corps>. The regiment was dug in 
on the east side of the river and the North Koreans were steadily building 
up a concentration of crack troops on the other side. The troopers 
knew an attack was coming, but they didn't know when, and they 
didn't know where. At 6 o'clock on the morning of August 12, they 
were in doubt no longer. Then it came, against Troop ~H.

The enemy had filtered across the river during the night and a full 
force of 1000 men, armed with Russian machine guns, attacked the position 
held by Chandler's men. They came in waves. First came the 
cannon fodder, white-clad civilians being driven into death as a massive 
human battering ram. They were followed by crack North Korean troops, 
who mounted one charge after another. They overran the 7th Cav's 
forward machine-gun positions through sheer weight of numbers, over 
piles of their own dead.   Another force flanked the company 
and took up a position on a hill to the rear. Captain Chandler saw 
that it was building up strength. He assembled a group of 25 men, composed 
of wounded troopers awaiting evacuation, the company clerk, supply 
men, cooks and drivers, and led them to the hill. One of the more 
seriously wounded was Lieutenant Carroll, the young officer bucking 
for the Regular Army. Chandler left Carroll at the bottom of the hill 
to direct any reinforcements he could find to the fight.   Then 
Mel Chandler started up the hill. He took one step, two, broke 
into a trot and then into a run. The first thing he knew the words "Garryowen"! 
burst from his throat. His followers shouted the old 
battle cry after him and charged the hill, firing as they ran.

The Koreans fell back, but regrouped at the top of the hill and pinned 
down the cavalrymen with a screen of fire. Chandler, looking to 
right and left to see how his men were faring, suddenly saw another figure 
bounding up the hill, hurling grenades and hollering the battle cry 
as he ran. It was Bob Carroll, who had suddenly found himself imbued 
with the spirit of Garryowen. He had formed his own task force 
of three stragglers and led them up the hill in a Fighting Seventh charge. 
Because of this diversionary attack the main group that had been 
pinned down on the hill was able to surge forward again. But an enemy 
grenade hit Carroll in the head and detonated simultaneously. He 
went down like a wet rag and the attackers hit the dirt in the face 
of 
the withering enemy fire.   Enemy reinforcements came pouring down, 
seeking a soft spot. They found it at the junction between Troops 
~H and ~G, and prepared to counterattack. Marvin Goulding saw 
what was happening. He turned to his platoon. "Okay, men", he 
said. "Follow me". Goulding leaped to his feet and started forward, 
"Garryowen"! on his lips, his men following. But the bullets 
whacked home before he finished his battle cry and Marvin Goulding 
fell dead. For an instant his men hesitated, unable to believe that 
their lieutenant, 
the most popular officer in the regiment, was dead. 
Then they let out a bellow of anguish and rage and, cursing, screaming 
and hollering "Garryowen"! they charged into the enemy like 
wild men.   That finished the job that Captain Chandler and Lieutenant 
Carroll had begun. Goulding's platoon pushed back the enemy 
soldiers and broke up the timing of the entire enemy attack. Reinforcements 
came up quickly to take advantage of the opening made by Goulding's 
platoon. The North Koreans threw away their guns and fled 
across the rice paddies. Artillery and air strikes were called in 
to kill them by the hundreds.   Though Bob Carroll seemed to have 
had his head practically blown off by the exploding grenade, he lived. 
Today he is a major- in the Regular Army.   So filled 
was Mel Chandler with the spirit of Garryowen that after Korea was 
over, he took on the job of writing the complete history of the regiment. 
After years of digging, nights and weekends, he put together the 
big, profusely illustrated book, <Of Garryowen and Glory>, which 
is probably the most complete history of any military unit. ##

The 
battle of the Naktong River is just one example of how the battle 
cry and the spirit of The Fighting Seventh have paid off. For nearly 
a century the cry has never failed to rally the fighting men of the 
regiment.   Take the case of Major Marcus A& Reno, who survived 
the Battle of The Little Big Horn in 1876. From the enlisted 
men he pistol-whipped to the subordinate officer whose wife he tried 
to rape, a lot of men had plenty of reason heartily to dislike Marcus 
Reno. Many of his fellow officers refused to speak to him. But 
when a board of inquiry was called to look into the charges of cowardice 
made against him, the men who had seen Reno leave the battlefield 
and the officer who had heard Reno suggest that the wounded be left 
to be tortured by the Sioux, refused to say a harsh word against him. 
He was a member of The Fighting Seventh.   Although it was 
at 
the Battle of The Little Horn, about which more words have been 
written than any other battle in American history, that the 7th Cavalry 
first made its mark in history, the regiment was ten years old by 
then. Brevet Major General George Armstrong Custer was the regiment's 
first permanent commander and, like such generals as George 
S& Patton and Terry de la Mesa Allen in their rise to military 
prominence, 
Custer was a believer in blood and guts warfare.   During 
the Civil War, Custer, who achieved a brilliant record, was 
made 
brigadier general at the age of 23.   He finished the war as 
a major general, commanding a full division, and at 25 was the youngest 
major general in the history of the U& S& Army. 
I do not mean to suggest that these assumptions are self-evident, in 
the sense that everyone agrees with them. If they were, Walter Lippmann 
would be writing the same columns as George Sokolsky, and Herblock 
would have nothing to draw cartoons about. I do mean, however, that 
<I> take them for granted, and that everything I shall be saying 
would appear quite idiotic against any contrary assumptions. _ASSUMPTION 
1._ The ultimate objective of American policy is to help establish 
a world in which there is the largest possible measure of freedom 
and justice and peace and material prosperity; and in particular- 
since this is our special responsibility- that these conditions 
be enjoyed by the people of the United States. I speak of "the largest 
possible measure" because any person who supposes that these 
conditions can be universally and perfectly achieved- ever- reckons 
without the inherent imperfectability of himself and his fellow human 
beings, and is therefore a dangerous man to have around. _ASSUMPTION 
2._ These conditions are unobtainable- are not even approachable 
in the qualified sense I have indicated- without the prior defeat 
of world Communism. This is true for two reasons: because Communism 
is both doctrinally, and in practice, antithetical to these conditions; 
and because Communists have the will and, as long as Soviet 
power remains intact, the capacity to prevent their realization. Moreover, 
as Communist power increases, the enjoyment of these conditions 
throughout the world diminishes <pro rata> and the possibility of 
their restoration becomes increasingly remote. _ASSUMPTION 3._ It 
follows that victory over Communism is the dominant, proximate goal 
of American policy. Proximate in the sense that there are more distant, 
more "positive" ends we seek, to which victory over Communism 
is but a means. But dominant in the sense that every other objective, 
no matter how worthy intrinsically, must defer to it. Peace is a worthy 
objective; but if we must choose between peace and keeping the 
Communists out of Berlin, then we must fight. Freedom, in the sense 
of self-determination, is a worthy objective; but if granting self-determination 
to the Algerian rebels entails sweeping that area into 
the Sino-Soviet orbit, then Algerian freedom must be postponed. Justice 
is a worthy objective; but if justice for Bantus entails driving 
the government of the Union of South Africa away from the West, 
then the Bantus must be prepared to carry their identification cards 
yet a while longer. Prosperity is a worthy objective; but if providing 
higher standards of living gets in the way of producing sufficient 
guns to resist Communist aggression, then material sacrifices and 
denials will have to be made. It may be, of course, that such objectives 
can be pursued consisently with a policy designed to overthrow Communism; 
my point is that where conflicts arise they must always be 
resolved in favor of achieving the indispensable condition for a tolerant 
world- the absence of Soviet Communist power. 

#THE USES OF 
POWER#

This much having been said, the question remains whether we 
have the resources for the job we have to do- defeat Communism- 
and, if so, how those resources ought to be used. This brings us squarely 
to the problem of <power,> and the uses a nation makes of power. 
I submit that this is the key problem of international relations, that 
it always has been, that it always will be. And I suggest further 
that the main cause of the trouble we are in has been the failure of 
American policy-makers, ever since we assumed free world leadership 
in 1945, to deal with this problem realistically and seriously. 
In the recent political campaign two charges were leveled affecting 
the question of power, and I think we might begin by trying to put them 
into proper focus. One was demonstrably false; the other, for the 
most part, true.   The first was that America had become- or 
was in danger of becoming- a second-rate military power. I know I 
do not have to dwell here on the absurdity of that contention. You 
may have misgivings about certain aspects of our military establishment- 
I certainly do- but you know any comparison of over-all American 
strength with over-all Soviet strength finds the United States 
not only superior, but so superior both in present weapons and in the 
development of new ones that our advantage promises to be a permanent 
feature of U&S&-Soviet relations for the foreseeable future.

I have often searched for a graphic way of impressing our superiority 
on those Americans who have doubts, and I think Mr& Jameson 
Campaigne has done it well in his new book <American Might and Soviet 
Myth>. Suppose, he says, that the tables were turned, and we 
were in the Soviets' position: "There would be more than 2,000 
modern Soviet fighters, all better than ours, stationed at 250 bases 
in Mexico and the Caribbean. Overwhelming Russian naval power would 
always be within a few hundred miles of our coast. Half of the population 
of the U&S& would be needed to work on arms just to feed 
the people". Add this to the unrest in the countries around us where 
oppressed peoples would be ready to turn on us at the first opportunity. 
Add also a comparatively primitive industrial plant which would 
severely limit our capacity to keep abreast of the Soviets even in the 
missile field which is reputed to be our main strength.   If 
we look at the situation this way, we can get an idea of Khrushchev's 
nightmarish worries- or, at least, of the worries he might have if 
his enemies were disposed to exploit their advantage. 

#U&S& "PRESTIGE"# 

The other charge was that America's political position 
in the world has progressively deteriorated in recent years. The 
contention needs to be formulated with much greater precision than it 
ever was during the campaign, but once that has been done, I fail to 
see how any serious student of world affairs can quarrel with it.

The argument was typically advanced in terms of U&S& "prestige". 
Prestige, however, is only a minor part of the problem; and 
even then, it is a concept that can be highly misleading. Prestige 
is a measure of how other people think of you, well or ill. But contrary 
to what was implied during the campaign, prestige is surely not important 
for its own sake. Only the vain and incurably sentimental among 
us will lose sleep simply because foreign peoples are not as impressed 
by our strength as they ought to be. The thing to lose sleep over 
is what people, having concluded that we are weaker than we are, are 
likely to do about it.   The evidence suggests that foreign peoples 
believe the United States is weaker than the Soviet Union, and 
is bound to fall still further behind in the years ahead. This ignorant 
estimate, I repeat, is not of any interest in itself; but it becomes 
very important if foreign peoples react the way human beings typically 
do- namely, by taking steps to end up on what appears to be 
the winning side. To the extent, then, that declining U&S& prestige 
means that other nations will be tempted to place their bets on 
an ultimate American defeat, and will thus be more vulnerable to Soviet 
intimidation, there is reason for concern.   Still, these guesses 
about the outcome of the struggle cannot be as important as the 
actual power relationship between the Soviet Union and ourselves. Here 
I do not speak of military power where our advantage is obvious and 
overwhelming but of political power- of influence, if you will- 
about which the relevant questions are: Is Soviet influence throughout 
the world greater or less than it was ten years ago? And is Western 
influence greater or less than it used to be? 

#COMMUNIST GAINS# 

In answering these questions, we need to ask not merely whether 
Communist troops have crossed over into territories they did not occupy 
before, and not merely whether disciplined agents of the Cominform 
are in control of governments from which they were formerly excluded: 
the success of Communism's war against the West does not depend 
on such spectacular and definitive conquests. Success may mean merely 
the displacement of Western influence.   Communist political 
warfare, we must remember, is waged insidiously and in deliberate stages. 
Fearful of inviting a military showdown with the West which they 
could not win, the Communists seek to undermine Western power where 
the nuclear might of the West is irrelevant- in backwoods guerrilla 
skirmishes, 
in mob uprisings in the streets, in parliaments, in clandestine 
meetings of undercover conspirators, at the United Nations, 
on the propaganda front, at diplomatic conferences- preferably at 
the highest level.   The Soviets understand, moreover, that the 
first step in turning a country toward Communism is to turn it against 
the West. Thus, typically, the first stage of a Communist takeover 
is to "neutralize" a country. The second stage is to retain the 
nominal classification of "neutralist", while in fact turning the 
country into an active advocate and adherent of Soviet policy. And 
this may be as far as the process will go. The Kremlin's goal is 
the isolation and capture, not of Ghana, but of the United States- 
and this purpose may be served very well by countries that masquerade 
under a "neutralist" mask, yet in fact are dependable auxiliaries 
of the Soviet Foreign Office.   To recite the particulars of 
recent Soviet successes is hardly reassuring.   Six years ago 
French Indochina, though in troubie, was in the Western camp. Today 
Northern Vietnam is overtly Communist; Laos is teetering between 
Communism and pro-Communist neutralism; Cambodia is, for all 
practical purposes, neutralist.   Indonesia, in the early days of 
the Republic, leaned toward the West. Today Sukarno's government 
is heavily besieged by avowed Communists, and for all of its "neutralist" 
pretensions, it is a firm ally of Soviet policy.   Ceylon 
has moved from a pro-Western orientation to a neutralism openly 
hostile to the West.   In the Middle East, Iraq, Syria and 
Egypt were, a short while ago, in the Western camp. Today the Nasser 
and Kassem governments are adamantly hostile to the West, are dependent 
for their military power on Soviet equipment and personnel; 
in almost every particular follow the Kremlin's foreign policy line.

A short time ago all Africa was a Western preserve. Never 
mind whether the Kikiyus and the Bantus enjoyed Wilsonian self-determination: 
the point is that in the struggle for the world that 
vast land mass was under the domination and influence of the West. Today, 
Africa is swerving violently away from the West and plunging, 
it would seem, into the Soviet orbit.   Latin America was once 
an area as "safe" for the West as Nebraska was for Nixon. Today 
it is up for grabs. One Latin American country, Cuba, has become 
a Soviet bridgehead ninety miles off our coast. In some countries 
the trend has gone further than others: Mexico, Panama, and Venezuela 
are displaying open sympathy for Castroism, and there is no country- 
save the Dominican Republic whose funeral services we recently 
arranged- where Castroism and anti-Americanism does not prevent 
the government from unqualifiedly espousing the American cause.

Only in Europe have our lines remained firm- and there only on the 
surface. The strains of neutralism are running strong, notably in 
England, and even in Germany. 

#OPPORTUNITIES MISSED#

What have 
we to show by way of counter-successes? We have had opportunities- 
clear invitations to plant our influence on the other side of the Iron 
Curtain. There was the Hungarian Revolution which we praised 
and mourned, but did nothing about. There was the Polish Revolution 
which we misunderstood and then helped guide along a course favorable 
to Soviet interests. There was the revolution in Tibet which we pretended 
did not exist. Only in one instance have we moved purposively 
and effectively to dislodge existing Communist power: in Guatemala. 
And contrary to what has been said recently, we did not wait for "outside 
pressures" and "world opinion" to bring down that Communist 
government; we moved decisively to effect an anti-Communist 
<coup 
d'etat>. We served our national interests, and by so doing we 
saved the Guatemalan people the ultimate in human misery.

THE FIRST RATTLE of the machine guns, at 7:10 in the evening, 
roused around me the varied voices and faces of fear.   "Sounds 
exactly like last time". The young man spoke steadily enough, 
but all at once he looked grotesquely unshaven. The middle-aged man 
said over and over, "Why did I come here, why did I come 
here". 
Then he was sick. Amid the crackle of small arms and automatic weapons, 
I heard the thumping of mortars. Then the lights went out.

This was my 
second day in Vientiane, the administrative capital of 
Laos, and my thoughts were none too brave. Where was my flashlight? 
Where should I go? To my room? Better stay in the hotel lobby, 
where the walls looked good and thick.   Chinese and Indian 
merchants across the street were slamming their steel shutters. Hotel 
attendants pulled parked bicycles into the lobby. A woman with a small 
boy slipped in between them. "Please", she said, "please". 
She held out her hand to show that she had money.   The American 
newspaperman worried about getting to the cable office. But what 
was the story? Had the Communist-led Pathet Lao finally come this 
far? Or was it another revolt inside Vientiane?   "Let's 
play hero", I said. "Let's go to the roof and see". 

#GUNFIRE 
SAVES THE MOON#

By 7:50 the answer was plain. There had 
been an eclipse of the moon. A traditional Lao explanation is that 
the moon was being swallowed by a toad, and the remedy was to make all 
possible noise, ideally with firearms.   The din was successful, 
too, for just before the moon disappeared, the frightened toad had 
begun 
to spit it out again, which meant good luck all around.   How 
quaint it all seemed the next day. A restaurant posted a reminder to 
patrons "who became excited and left without paying their checks". 
But everyone I met had sought cover first and asked questions later. 
And no wonder, for Vientiane, the old City of Sandalwood, had 
become the City of Bullet Holes.   I saw holes in planes at the 
airport and in cars in the streets. Along the main thoroughfares hardly 
a house had not been peppered. In place of the police headquarters 
was a new square filled with rubble. Mortars had demolished the 
defense ministry and set fire to the American Embassy next door. What 
had been the ambassador's suite was now jagged walls of blackened 
brick.   This damage had been done in the battle of Vientiane, 
fought less than three months earlier when four successive governments 
had ruled here in three days (December 9-11, 1960). And now, in March, 
all Laos suffered a state of siege. The Pathet Lao forces held 
two northern provinces and openly took the offensive in three more. 
Throughout the land their hit-and-run terrorists spread fear of ambush 
and death.   "And it's all the more tragic because it's 
so little deserved", said Mr& J& J& A& Frans, a Belgian 
official of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural 
Organization. We talked after I hailed his Jeep marked with 
the U& N& flag.   Practically all the people of Laos, he 
explained- about two million of them- are rice farmers, and the means 
and motives of modern war are as strange to them as clocks and steel 
plows. They look after their fields and children and water buffaloes 
in ten or eleven thousand villages, with an average of 200 souls. 
Nobody can tell more closely how many villages there are. They spread 
over an area no larger than Oregon; yet they include peoples as different 
from one another as Oregonians are from Patagonians. 

#LIFE 
MUST BE KEPT IN HARMONY#

"What matters here is family loyalty; 
faith in the Buddha and staying at peace with the <phis>, the spirits; 
and to live in harmony with nature".   Harmony in Laos? 
"Precisely", said Mr& Frans. He spoke of the season of 
dryness and dust, brought by the monsoon from the northeast, in harmony 
with the season of rain and mud, brought by the monsoon from the southwest. 
The slim pirogues in harmony with the majestically meandering 
Mekong River. Shy, slender-waisted girls at the loom in harmony with 
the frangipani by the wayside. Even life in harmony with death. For 
so long as death was not violent, it was natural and to be welcomed, 
making a funeral a feast.   To many a Frenchman- they came 
95 years ago, colonized, and stayed until Laos became independent in 
1953- the land had been even more delightfully tranquil than Tahiti. 
Yet Laos was now one of the most explosive headaches of statesmen 
around the globe. The Pathet Lao, stiffened by Communist Veterans 
from neighboring North Viet Nam, were supplied by Soviet aircraft. 
The Royal Lao Army, on the other hand, was paid and equipped with 
American funds. In six years, U& S& aid had amounted to more 
than $1.60 for each American- a total of three hundred million dollars.

We were there at a moment when the situation in Laos threatened 
to ignite another war among the world's giants. Even if it 
did not, how would this little world of gentle people cope with its 
new reality of grenades and submachine guns?   To find out, we 
traveled throughout that part of Laos still nominally controlled, in 
the daytime at least, by the Royal Lao Army: from Attopeu, the 
City 
of Buffalo Dung in the southeast, to Muong Sing, the City of 
Lions in the northwest, close to Communist China (map, page 250). 
We rode over roads so rough that our Jeep came to rest atop the soil 
between ruts, all four wheels spinning uselessly. We flew in rickety 
planes so overloaded that we wondered why they didn't crash. In the 
end we ran into Communist artillery fire.   "We" were Bill 
Garrett of the NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC Illustrations Staff, whose 
three cameras and eight lenses made him look as formidable as any 
fighting man we met; Boun My, our interpreter; and myself.

Boun My- the name means one who has a <boun>, a celebration, and 
is therefore lucky- was born in Savannakhet, the Border of Paradise. 
He had attended three universities in the United States. But 
he had never seen the mountainous half of his native land north of Vientiane, 
including the royal capital, Luang Prabang. Before the airplanes 
came, he said, travel in Laos was just about impossible. 

#PRIME 
MINISTER MOVES FAST#

Alas, so it almost proved for us, too. To 
go outside the few cities required permits. and getting them seemed 
a life's work. Nobody wanted Americans to be hurt or captured, and 
few soldiers could be spared as escorts.   We were told that to 
the Pathet Lao, a kidnaped American was worth at least $750, a fortune 
in Laos. Everyone had heard of the American contractor who had 
spurned an escort. Now Pathet Lao propagandists were reported marching 
him barefoot from village to village, as evidence of evil American 
intervention.   Although we enjoyed our rounds of the government 
offices in Vientiane, with officials offering tea and pleasing conversation 
in French, we were getting nowhere. We had nearly decided 
that all the tales of Lao lethargy must be true, when we were invited 
to take a trip with the Prime Minister. Could we be ready in 15 
minutes? His Highness had decided only two hours ago to go out of 
town, and he was eager to be off. 

#PRINCE WEARS TEN-GALLON HAT#

And 
so, after a flight southeast to Savannakhet, we found ourselves bouncing 
along in a Jeep right behind the Land-Rover of Prince Boun 
Oum of Champassak, a tall man of Churchillian mien in a bush jacket 
and a ten-gallon hat from Texas. From his shoulder bag peeked the 
seven-inch barrel of a Luger.   The temperature rose to 105`. 
With our company of soldiers, we made one long column of reddish dust.

In Keng Kok, the City of Silkworms, the Prime Minister 
bought fried chickens and fried cicadas, and two notebooks for me. 
Then we drove on, until there was no more road and we traversed dry rice 
fields, bouncing across their squat earth walls.   It was a 
spleen-crushing day. An hour of bouncing, a brief stop in a village to 
inspect a new school or dispensary. More bouncing, another stop, a 
new house for teachers, a new well. Then off again, rushing to keep up. 
We were miserable.   But our two Jeep mates- Keo Viphakone 
from Luang Prabang and John Cool from Beaver, Pennsylvania- 
were beaming under their coatings of dust. Together they had probably 
done more than any other men to help push Laos toward the 20th century- 
constructively. Mr& Keo, once a diplomat in Paris and Washington, 
was Commissioner of Rural Affairs. John, an engineer and anthropologist 
with a doctorate from the London School of Economics, 
headed the rural development division of ~USOM, the United States 
Operations Mission administering U&S& aid.   "What 
you see are self-help projects", John said. "We ask the people 
what they want, and they supply the labor. We send shovels, cement, 
nails, 
and corrugated iron for roofs. That way they have an infirmary 
for $400. We have 2,500 such projects, and they add up to a lot more 
than just roads and wells and schools. Ask Mr& Keo". 
Mr& 
Keo agreed. "Our people have been used to accepting things as 
they found them", he said. "Where there was no road, they lived 
without one. Now they learn that men can change their surroundings, 
through their traditional village elders, without violence. That's 
a big step toward a modern state. You might say we are in the nation-building 
business".   In the villages people lined up to give 
us flowers. Then came coconuts, eggs, and rice wine. The Prime Minister 
paid his respects to the Buddhist monks, strode rapidly among the 
houses, joked with the local soldiery, and made a speech. The soldiers 
are fighting and the Americans are helping, he said, but in the 
fight against the Pathet Lao the key factor is the villager himself.

Then we were off again. We did it for three days.   But 
our stumping tour of the south wasn't all misery. Crossing the 4,000-foot 
width of the Mekong at Champassak, on a raft with an outboard 
motor, we took off our dusty shirts and enjoyed a veritable ocean 
breeze. Then we hung overboard in the water.   Briefly we rolled 
over a paved road up to Pak Song, on the cool Bolovens Plateau. 
The Prince visited the hospital of Operation Brotherhood, supported 
by the Junior Chamber of Commerce of the Philippines, and fed rice 
to two pet elephants he kept at his residence at Pak Song. 

#STRINGS 
KEEP SOULS IN PLACE#

In the village of Soukhouma, which means 
"Peaceful", we had a <baci>. This is the most endearing of Lao 
ceremonies. It takes place in the household, a rite of well-wishing 
for myriad occasions- for the traveler, a wedding, a newborn child, 
the sick, the New Year, for any good purpose.   The preparations 
were elaborate: flowers, candles, incense sticks, rice wine, dozens 
of delicacies, and pieces of white cotton string. The strings were 
draped around flowers in tall silver bowls (page 261).   The 
candles were lighted, and we sat on split-bamboo mats among the village 
notables. I was careful to keep my feet, the seat of the least worthy 
spirits, from pointing at anyone's head, where the worthiest spirits 
reside. Now a distinguished old man called on nine divinities to 
come and join us.   Next he addressed himself to our souls. A 
man has 32 souls, one for each part of the body. Those souls like to 
wander off, and must be called back.   With the divinities present 
and our souls in place, we were wished health, happiness, and power. 
Then, one after another, the villagers tied the waiting cotton strings 
around our wrists. These were to be kept on, to hold in the 32 souls.

As we stepped out into the sunlight, a man came up to John 
Cool and silently showed him his hand. It had a festering hole as 
big as a silver dollar. We could see maggots moving.   John said: 
"I have some antiseptic salve with me, but it's too late for 
that".

My interviews with teen-agers confirmed this portrait of the weakening 
of religious and ethnic bonds. Jewish identity was often confused 
with social and economic strivings. "Being Jewish gives you tremendous 
drive", a boy remarked. "It means that you have to get 
ahead". When I pressed for a purely religious definition, I encountered 
the familiar blend of liberal piety, interfaith good will, and 
a small residue of ethnic loyalty.   "I like the tradition", 
a girl said. "I like to follow the holidays when they come along. 
But you don't have to worship in the traditional way. You can communicate 
in your own way. As I see it, there's no real difference between 
being Jewish, Catholic, or Protestant".   Another teen-ager 
remarked: "Most Jews don't believe in God, but they believe 
in people- in helping people". Still another boy asserted: 
"To be a good Jew is to do no wrong; it's to be a good person". 
When asked how this was different from being a good Protestant, 
the boy answered, "It's the same thing".   This accords 
with the study by Maier and Spinrad. They discovered that, although 
42 per cent of a sample of Catholic students and 15 per cent of the 
Protestants believed it important to live in accordance with the teachings 
of their religion, only 8 per cent of the Jewish students had this 
conviction. The most important aims of the Jewish students were as 
follows: to make the world a better place to live in- 30 per cent; 
to get happiness for yourself- 28 per cent; and financial independence- 
21 per cent.   Nevertheless, most of the teen-agers 
I interviewed believed in maintaining their Jewish identity and even 
envisioned joining a synagogue or temple. However, they were hostile 
to Jewish Orthodoxy, professing to believe in Judaism "but in a 
moderate way". One boy said querulously about Orthodox Jews: "It's 
the twentieth century, and they don't have to wear beards".

The reason offered for clinging to the ancestral faith lacked 
force and authority even in the teen-agers' minds. "We were brought 
up that way" was one statement which won general assent. "I 
want to show respect for my parents' religion" was the way in which 
a boy justified his inhabiting a halfway house of Judaism. Still 
another suggested that he would join a temple "for social reasons, 
since I'll be living in a suburb".   Intermarriage, which 
is generally regarded as a threat to Jewish survival, was regarded not 
with horror or apprehension but with a kind of mild, clinical disapproval. 
Most of the teen-agers I interviewed rejected it on pragmatic 
grounds. "When you marry, you want to have things in common", a 
girl said, "and it's hard when you don't marry someone with your 
own background".   A fourteen-year-old girl from the Middle 
West observed wryly that, in her community, religion inconveniently interfered 
with religious activities- at least with the peripheral activities 
that many middle class Jews now regard as religious. It appears 
that an Orthodox girl in the community disrupted plans for an outing 
sponsored by one of the Jewish service groups because she would 
not travel on Saturday and, in addition, required kosher food. Another 
girl from a relatively large midwestern city described herself as "the 
only Orthodox girl in town". This is, no doubt, inaccurate, 
but it does convey how isolated she feels among the vast army of the 
nonobservant. 

#THE OLDER TEENS#

One of the significant things about 
Jewish culture in the older teen years is that it is largely college-oriented. 
Sixty-five per cent of the Jewish teen-agers of college 
age attend institutions of higher learning. This is substantially higher 
than the figures for the American population at large- 45.6 per 
cent for males and 29.2 per cent for females. This may help explain 
a phenomenon described by a small-town Jewish boy. In their first two 
years in high school, Jewish boys in this town make strenuous exertions 
to win positions on the school teams. However, in their junior and 
senior years, they generally forego their athletic pursuits, presumably 
in the interest of better academic achievement. It is significant, 
too, that the older teen-agers I interviewed believed, unlike the 
younger ones, that Jewish students tend to do better academically than 
their gentile counterparts.   The percentage of Jewish girls 
who attend college is almost as high as that of boys. The motivations 
for both sexes, to be sure, are different. The vocational motive is 
the dominant one for boys, while Jewish girls attend college for social 
reasons and to become culturally developed. One of the significant 
developments in American-Jewish life is that the cultural consumers 
are largely the women. It is they who read- and make- Jewish 
best-sellers and then persuade their husbands to read them.   In 
upper teen Jewish life, the non-college group tends to have a sense 
of marginality. "People automatically assume that I'm in college", 
a nineteen-year-old machinist observed irritably. However, among 
the girls, there are some morale-enhancing compensations for not going 
to college. The Jewish working girl almost invariably works in an 
office- in contradistinction to gentile factory workers- and, buttressed 
by a respectable income, she is likely to dress better and live 
more expansively than the college student. She is even prone to regard 
the college girl as immature. 

#THE LOWER-MIDDLE CLASS COLLEGE STUDENT# 

One of the reasons for the high percentage of Jewish teen-agers 
in college is that a great many urban Jews are enabled to attend 
local colleges at modest cost. This is particularly true in large centers 
of Jewish population like New York, Chicago, and Philadelphia.

What is noteworthy about this large group of teen-agers is 
that, although their attitudes hardly differentiate them from their 
gentile counterparts, 
they actually lead their lives in a vast self-enclosed 
Jewish cosmos with relatively little contact with the non-Jewish 
world.   Perhaps the Jewish students at Brooklyn College- 
constituting 85 per cent of those who attend the day session- can 
serve as a paradigm of the urban, lower-middle class Jewish student.

There is, to begin, an important sex difference. Typically, in 
a lower-middle class Jewish family, a son will be sent to an out-of-town 
school, if financial resources warrant it, while the daughter will 
attend the local college. There are two reasons for this. First, 
the girl's education has a lower priority than the son's. Second, 
the attitude in Jewish families is far more protective toward the daughter 
than toward the son. Most Jewish mothers are determined to exercise 
vigilance over the social and sexual lives of their daughters by 
keeping them home. The consequence of this is that the girls at Brooklyn 
College outnumber the boys and do somewhat better academically. 
One can assume that some of the brightest boys are out of town.

Brooklyn College students have an ambivalent attitude toward their 
school. On the one hand, there is a sense of not having moved beyond 
the ambiance of their high school. This is particularly acute for 
those who attended Midwood High School directly across the street 
from Brooklyn College. They have a sense of marginality at being denied 
that special badge of status, the out-of-town school. At the same 
time, there is a good deal of self-congratulation at attending a good 
college- they are even inclined to exaggerate its not inconsiderable 
virtues- and they express pleasure at the cozy in-group feeling 
that the college generates. "It's people of your own kind", a girl 
remarked. "You don't have to watch what you say. Of course, 
I would like to go to an out-of-town school where there are all kinds 
of people, but I would want lots of Jewish kids there".   For 
most Brooklyn College students, college is at once a perpetuation 
of their ethnic attachments and a breaking away from the cage of neighborhood 
and family. @rooklyn College is unequivocally Jewish in 
tone, and efforts to detribalize the college by bringing in unimpeachably 
midwestern types on the faculty have been unavailing. However, a 
growing intellectual sophistication and the new certitudes imparted by 
courses in psychology and anthropology make the students increasingly 
critical of their somewhat provincial and overprotective parents. And 
the rebellion of these third generation Jews is not the traditional 
conflict of culture but, rather, a protest against a culture that they 
view as softly and insidiously enveloping. "As long as I'm home, 
I'll never grow up", a nineteen-year-old boy observed sadly. 
"They don't like it if I do anything away from home. It's so 
much trouble, I don't usually bother".   For girls, the overprotection 
is far more pervasive. Parents will drive on Friday night 
to pick up their daughters after a sorority or House Plan meeting. 
A freshman girl's father not too long ago called a dean at Brooklyn 
College and demanded the "low-down" on a boy who was going out 
with his daughter. The domestic tentacles even extend to the choice 
of a major field. Under pressure from parents, the majority of Brooklyn 
College girls major in education since that co-ordinates best with 
marriage plans- limited graduate study requirement and convenient 
working hours. This means that a great many academically talented girls 
are discouraged from pursuing graduate work of a more demanding nature. 
A kind of double standard exists here for Jewish boys and girls 
as it does in the realm of sex.   The breaking away from the prison 
house of Brooklyn is gradual. First, the student trains on his 
hapless parents the heavy artillery of his newly acquired psychological 
and sociological insights. Then, with the new affluence, there is 
actually a sallying forth into the wide, wide world beyond the precincts 
of New York. It is significant that the Catskills, which used to 
be the summer playground for older teen-agers, a kind of summer suburb 
of New York, no longer attracts them in great numbers- except for 
those who work there as waiters, bus boys, or counselors in the day 
camps. The great world beyond beckons. But it should be pointed out 
that some of the new watering places- Fire Island, Nantucket, Westhampton, 
Long Island, for example- tend to be homogeneously Jewish. 
Although Brooklyn College does not yet have a junior-year-abroad 
program, a good number of students spend summers in Europe. In 
general, however, the timetable of travel lags considerably behind that 
of the student at Harvard or Smith. And acculturation into the world 
at large is likely to occur for the Brooklyn College student after 
college rather than during the four school years.   Brooklyn 
College is Marjorie Morningstar territory, as much as the Bronx or 
Central Park West. There are hordes of nubile young women there 
who, prodded by their impatient mothers, are determined to marry. 
It is interesting that, although the percentage of married students 
is not appreciably higher at Brooklyn than elsewhere- about 30 per 
cent of the women and 25 per cent of the men in the graduating class- 
the anxiety of the unmarried has puffed up the estimate. "Almost 
everybody in the senior class is married", students say dogmatically. 
And the school newspaper sells space to jubilant fraternities, sororities, 
and houses (in the House Plan Association) that have good 
news to impart. These announcements are, in effect, advertisements 
for themselves as thriving marriage marts. There are boxed proclamations 
in the newspaper of watchings, pinnings, ringings, engagements, and 
marriages in a scrupulously graded hierarchy of felicity. "Witt House 
happily announces the engagement of Fran Horowitz to Erwin Schwartz 
of Fife House".   The Brooklyn College student shows 
some striking departures from prevailing collegiate models. The Ivy 
League enjoys no easy dominion here, and the boys are as likely to 
dress in rather foppish Continental fashion, or even in nondescript 
working class manner, as they are in the restrained, button-down Ivy 
way. The girls are prone to dress far more flamboyantly than their counterparts 
out of town, and eye shadow, mascara, and elaborate <bouffant> 
hairdos- despite the admonitions of cautious guidance personnel- 
are not unknown even in early morning classes.   Among the 
boys, there is very little bravado about drinking. Brooklyn College 
is distinctive for not having an official drinking place. The Fort Lauderdale 
encampment for drinking is foreign to most Brooklyn College 
boys. 
This should be used frequently (but shaken before using). For galled 
breasts, the mother should shave into half a cup of fresh unsalted lard 
enough white chalk to make a paste. This could also be used for any 
other skin irritation. Or she might place cornstarch in the oven for 
a short time and then apply this under her breasts.   "Female 
troubles" of various kinds do not seem to have been common on the 
frontier; at least I have only one remedy for anything of this kind 
in my collection, one for hastening delayed menstruation. The sufferer 
drinks tansy tea.   Bruises, burns, cuts, etc&, occurred frequently 
on the frontier, and folk medicine gave the answers to these 
problems too. Bruises and black eyes were relieved by application of 
raw beefsteak. (Doctors now say that it was not the meat but the coolness 
of the applications which relieved the pain.) Salted butter was 
another 
cure for bruises. Many people agreed that burns should be treated 
with bland oily salves or unsalted butter or lard, but one informant 
told me that a burn should be bathed in salt water; the burn oozed 
watery fluid for many days, and finally the healing was completed by 
bathing it with epsom salts. Another swore by vinegar baths for burns, 
and still another recommended salted butter. "Butter salve" or 
"butter ointment" was used for burns, and for bruises as well. This 
was made by putting butter in a pan of water and allowing it to boil; 
when it was cool, the fat was skimmed off and bottled. Cow's 
milk was another cure for burns, and burns covered with gum arabic or 
plain mucilage healed quickly. One man, badly burned about the face and 
eyes by an arc welding torch, was blinded and could not find a doctor 
at the time. A sympathetic friend made poultices of raw potato parings, 
which she said was the best and quickest way to draw out the "heat". 
Later the doctor used mineral oil on the burns. The results 
were good, but which treatment helped is still not known.   To 
stop bleeding, cobwebs were applied to cuts and wounds. One old-timer 
said to sprinkle sugar on a bleeding cut, even when on a knuckle, if it 
was made by a rusty tool; this would stop the flow and also prevent 
infection. My lawyer told me that his mother used a similar remedy 
for cuts and wounds; she sprinkled common sugar directly on the injury 
and then bound it loosely with cotton cloth, over which she poured 
turpentine. He showed me one of his fingers which had been practically 
amputated and which his mother had treated; there is scarcely a scar 
showing. Tobacco was common first aid. A "chaw" of tobacco put 
on an open wound was both antiseptic and healing. Or a thin slice 
of plug tobacco might be laid on the open wound without chewing. One 
old man told me that when he was a boy he was kicked in the head by a 
fractious mule and had his scalp laid back from the entire front of his 
head. His brother ran a mile to get the father; when they reached 
the boy, the father sliced a new plug of tobacco, put the scalp back 
in place, and covered the raw edges with the slices. Then he put a rag 
around the dressing to keep it in place. There was no cleaning or further 
care, but the wound healed in less than two weeks and showed no 
scar. Veronica from the herb garden was also used to stop bleeding, 
and rue was an antiseptic. Until quite recently, "sterile" maggots 
could be bought to apply to a wound; they would feed on its surface, 
leaving it clean so that it could be medically treated.   Tetanus 
could be avoided by pouring warm turpentine over a wound. One family 
bound wounds with bacon or salt pork strips, or, if these were not 
handy, plain lard. Another sprinkled sugar on hot coals and held the 
wounded foot or hand in the smoke. Rabies were cured or prevented 
by "madstones" which the pioneer wore or carried. In 1872 there were 
known to be twenty-two in Norton County, and one had been in the 
family for 200 years. Another cure for hydrophobia was to suck the wounds, 
then cauterize them with a hot knife or poker.   While nowadays 
we recognize the fact that there are many causes for bleeding at 
the nose, not long ago a nosebleed was simply that, and treatment had 
little 
variation. Since a fall or blow might have caused it, a cold pack 
was usually first aid. This might be applied to the top of the nose 
or the back of the neck, pressed on the upper lip, or inserted into the 
nostril (cotton was usually used in this last). Nosebleed could be 
stopped by wrapping a red woolen string about the patient's neck and 
tying in it a knot for each year of his life. Or the victim could chew 
hard on a piece of paper, meanwhile pressing his fingers tight in 
his ears.   Old sores could be healed by the constant application 
of a wash made of equal parts vinegar and water. Blood blisters could 
be prevented from forming by rubbing a work blister immediately with 
any hard nonpoisonous substance. Felons were cured by taking common 
salt and drying it in the oven, pounding it fine, and mixing it with equal 
parts of spirits of turpentine; this mixture was then spread on 
a cloth and wrapped around the affected part. As the cloth dried, more 
of the mixture was applied, and after twenty-four hours the felon was 
supposed to be "killed".   Insect bites were cured in many 
ways. Many an old-timer swore by the saliva method; "get a bite, 
spit on it" was a proverb. This was used also for bruises. Yellow 
clay was used as a poultice for insect bites and also for swellings; 
not long ago "Denver Mud" was most popular. Chiggers were a 
common pest along streams and where gardens and berries thrived; so 
small as to be scarcely visible to the eye, they buried themselves in 
the victim's flesh. Bathing the itching parts with kerosene gave relief 
and also killed the pests. Ant bites were eased by applying liquid 
bluing. For mosquito bites a paste of half a glass of salt and half 
a glass of soda was made. For wasp stings onion juice, obtained by 
scraping an onion, gave quick relief. A handier remedy was to bathe the 
painful part in strong soapy water; mud was sometimes used as well 
as soap. Just plain old black dirt was also used as a pack to relieve 
wasp or bee stings.   Bedbugs were a common pest in pioneer days; 
to keep them out of homes, even in the 1900's, was a chore. Bed 
slats were washed in alum water, legs of beds were placed in cups 
of kerosene, and all woodwork was treated liberally with corrosive sublimate, 
applied with a feather. Kerosene was very effective in ridding 
pioneer homes of the pests. At times pioneer children got lice in their 
hair. A kerosene shampoo seems a heroic treatment, but it did the 
job.   To remove an insect from one's ear warm water should 
be inserted. A cinder or other small object could be removed from the 
eye by placing a flaxseed in the eye. As the seed swelled its glutinous 
covering protected the eyeball from irritation, and both the cinder 
and the seed could soon be washed out. Another way to remove small 
objects from the eye was to have the person look cross-eyed; the particle 
would then move toward the nose, where it could be wiped out with 
a wisp of cotton.   Shingles were cured by gentian, an old drug, 
used in combinations. For erysipelas a mixture of one dram borax and 
one 
ounce glycerine was applied to the afflicted part on linen cloth. Itching 
skin, considered "just nerves", was eased by treating with 
whiskey and salt. Winter itch was treated by applying strong apple cider 
in which pulverized bloodroot had been steeped. To cure fungus growths 
on mouth or hands people made a strong tea by using a handful of 
sassafras bark in a quart of water. They drank half a cup of this morning 
and night, and they also washed and soaked their hands in the same 
solution. Six treatments cured one case which lasted a month and 
had defied other remedies. Frostbite was treated by putting the feet 
and hands in ice water or by rubbing them with snow. Now one hears that 
heat and hot water are used instead. Another remedy was oil of eucalyptus, 
used as well for chilblains. Chilblains were also treated with 
tincture of capsicum or cabbage leaves.   Boils have always been 
a source of much trouble. A German informant gave me a sure cure 
made by combining rye flour and molasses into a poultice. Another poultice 
was made from the inner bark of the elm tree, steeped in water 
until it formed a sticky, gummy solution. This was also used for sores. 
Another frequent pioneer difficulty, caused by wearing rough and heavy 
shoes and boots, was corns. One veracious woman tells me she has 
used thin potato parings for both corns and calluses on her feet and they 
remove the pain or "fire". Another common cure was to soak the 
feet five or ten minutes in warm water, then to apply a solution of 
equal parts of soda and common brown soap on a kid bandage overnight. 
This softened the skin so that in the morning when the bandage was removed 
the corn could be scraped off and a bit of corn plaster put on.

There were many cures for warts. One young girl told me how her 
mother removed a wart from her finger by soaking a copper penny in 
vinegar for three days and then painting the finger with the liquid several 
times. Another wart removal method was to rub each wart with a 
bean split open and then to bury the bean halves under the drip of the 
house for seven days. Saliva gathered in the mouth after a night's 
sleep was considered poisonous; wetting a wart with this saliva on 
wakening the first thing in the morning was supposed to cause it to disappear 
after only a few treatments, and strangely enough many warts did 
just that. One wart cure was to wrap it in a hair from a blonde gypsy. 
Another was to soak raw beef in vinegar for twenty-four hours, tie 
it on the wart, and wear it for a week. A simpler method was to tie 
a thread tightly around the wart at its base and wear it this way. I 
know this worked. One person recommended to me washing the wart with 
sulphur water; another said it should be rubbed with a cut potato 
three times daily. Another common method was to cut an onion in two and 
place each half on the wart for a moment; the onion was then fastened 
together with string and placed beneath a dripping eave. As the 
onion decayed, so did the wart.   Sore muscles were relieved by 
an arnica rub; sore feet by calf's-foot, an herb from the pioneer's 
ubiquitous herb garden, or by soaking the feet in a pan of hot water 
in which two cups of salt had been dissolved. Leg cramps, one person 
tells me, were relieved by standing barefoot with the weight of the 
body on the heel and pressing down hard. This does give relief, as I 
can testify. One doctor prescribed a tablespoon of whiskey or brandy 
before each meal for leg cramps. Pains in the back of the leg and in 
the abdomen were prevented from reaching the upper body by tying a rope 
about the patient's waist.   For sprains and swellings, one 
pint of cider vinegar and half a pint of spirits of turpentine added 
to three well beaten eggs was said to give speedy relief.

EXCEPT FOR the wine waiter in a restaurant- always an inscrutable 
plenipotentiary unto himself, the genii with the keys to unlock 
the gates of the wine world are one's dealer, and the foreign shipper 
or <negociant> who in turn supplies him. In instances where 
both of these are persons or firms with integrity, the situation is ideal. 
It may, on occasion, be anything but that. However, by cultivating 
a wine dealer and accepting his advice, one will soon enough ascertain 
whether he has any knowledge of wines (as opposed to what he may 
have been told by salesmen and promoters) and, better yet, whether he 
has a taste for wine. Again, by spreading one's purchases over several 
wine dealers, one becomes familiar with the names and specialties 
of reputable wine dealers and shippers abroad. This is important because, 
despite all the efforts of the French government, an appreciable 
segment of France's export trade in wines is still tainted with a 
misrepresentation approaching downright dishonesty, and there are many 
too many <negociants> who would rather turn a <sou> than amass a 
creditable reputation overseas.   A good <negociant> or shipper 
will not only be the man or the firm which has cornered the wines from 
the best vineyards, or the best parts of them; he may also be the 
one who makes and bottles the best blends- sound wines from vineyards 
generally in his own district. These are the wines the French themselves 
use for everyday drinking, for even in France virtually no one 
drinks the <Grands Crus> on a meal-to-meal basis. The <Grands 
Crus> are expensive, and even doting palates tire of them. And certainly, 
in the case of the beginner or the comparatively uninitiated wine 
drinker, the palate and the capacity for appreciation will not be ready 
for the <Grands Crus> as a steady diet without frequent recourse 
to <crus> of less renown. There is nothing <infra dig> about a 
good blend from a good shipper. Some of them are very delicious indeed, 
and there are many good ones exported- unfortunately, along with 
others not so good, and worse. Consultation with a reputable wine dealer 
and constant experimentation- "steering ever from the known to 
the unknown"- are the requisites.   Wine waiters are something 
else again; especially if one is travelling or dining out a great 
deal, their importance mounts. Most of them, the world over, operate 
on the same principle by which justice is administered in France and 
some other Latin countries: the customer is to be considered guilty 
of abysmal ignorance until proven otherwise, with the burden of proof 
on the customer himself. Now the drinking of wine (and happily so!) 
is for the most part a recondite affair, for manifestly, if everyone 
in the world who could afford the best wines also liked them, the 
supply would dry up in no time at all. This is the only valid, and extenuating, 
argument that may be advanced in defense of the reprehensible 
attitude of the common wine waiter. A really good wine waiter is, 
paradoxically, the guardian (and not the purveyor) of his cellar against 
the Visigoths. Faced, on the one hand, with an always exhaustible 
supply of his best wines, and on the other by a clientele usually equipped 
with inexhaustible pocketbooks, it is a wonder indeed that all wine 
waiters are not afflicted with chronic ambivalence. The one way to 
get around them- short of knowing exactly what one wants and sticking 
to it- is to frequent a single establishment until its wine waiter 
is persuaded that one is at least as interested in wine as in spending 
money. Only then, perhaps, will he reveal his jewels and his bargains.

Wine bought from a dealer should ideally be allowed to rest 
for several weeks before it is served. This is especially true of 
red wines, and a practice which, though not always practicable, is well 
worth the effort. It does no harm for wine to stand on end for a matter 
of days, but in terms of months and years it is fatal. Wine stored 
for a long time should be on its side; otherwise, the cork dries 
and air enters to spoil it. When stacking wine on its side in a bin, 
care should always be taken to be sure there is no air bubble left next 
to the cork. Fat bottles, such as Burgundies, have a way of rolling 
around in the bin and often need little props, such as a bit of cardboard 
or a chip of wood, to hold them in the proper reclining posture. 
Too much dampness in the cellar rots the corks, again with ill effects. 
The best rule of thumb for detecting corked wine (provided the eye 
has not already spotted it) is to smell the wet end of the cork after 
pulling it: if it smells of wine, the bottle is probably all right; 
if it smells of cork, one has grounds for suspicion.   Seasonal 
rises or drops in temperature are bad for wine: they age it prematurely. 
The ideal storage temperature for long periods is about fifty-five 
degrees, with an allowable range of five degrees above or below 
this, provided there are no sudden or frequent changes. Prolonged vibration 
is also undesirable; consequently, one's wine closet or cellar 
should be away from machines or electrically driven furnaces. If 
one lives near a subway or an express parkway, the solution is to have 
one's wines stored with a dealer and brought home a few at a time. 
Light, especially daylight, is always bad for wine.   All in 
all, though, there is a good deal of nonsense expended over the preparations 
thought necessary for ordinary wine drinking; many people go 
to extreme lengths in decanting, chilling or warming, or banishing without 
further investigation any bottle with so much as a slightly suspicious 
cork. No one should wish to deny these purists the obvious pleasure 
they derive from all this, and to give fair warning where warning 
is due, no one who becomes fond of wines ever avoids acquiring some degree 
of purism! But the fact remains that in most restaurants, including 
some of the best of Paris and Bordeaux and Dijon, the bottle 
is frankly and simply brought from the cellar to the table when ordered, 
and all the conditioning or preparation it ever receives takes place 
while the chef is preparing the meal. A white wine, already at cool 
cellar temperature, may be adequately chilled in a bucket of ice and 
water or the freezing compartment of a refrigerator (the former is far 
preferable) in about fifteen minutes; for those who live in a winter 
climate, there is nothing better than a bucket of water and snow. Though 
by no means an ideal procedure, a red wine may similarly be brought 
from the cellar to the dining room and opened twenty minutes or so 
before serving time. It may be a bit cold when poured; but again, 
as one will have observed at any restaurant worth its salt, wine should 
be served in a large, tulip-shaped glass, which is never filled more 
than half full. In this way, red wine warms of itself quite rapidly- 
and though it is true that it may not attain its potential of taste 
and fragrance until after the middle of the meal (or the course), in 
the meantime it will have run the gamut of many beguiling and interesting 
stages. The only cardinal sin which may be committed in warming 
a wine is to force it by putting it next to the stove or in front of an 
open fire. This invariably effaces any wine's character, and drives 
its fragrance underground.   It should not be forgotten that 
wines mature fastest in half-bottles, less fast in full bottles, slowly 
in Magnums- and slower yet in Tregnums, double Magnums, Jeroboams, 
Methuselahs, and Imperiales, respectively. Very old red wines 
often require several hours of aeration, and any red wine, brought from 
the cellar within half an hour of mealtime, should be uncorked and allowed 
some air. But white wines never! White wines should be opened 
when served, having been previously chilled in proportion to their 
sweetness. Thus, Sauternes or Barsacs should be very cold; a Pouilly-Fuisse 
or a Chablis somewhat less cold. Over-chilling is an accepted 
method for covering up the faults of many a cheap or poor white 
wine, especially a dry wine- and certainly less of a crime than serving 
a wine at a temperature which reveals it as unattractive. 
The fragrance and taste of any white wine will die a lingering death 
when it is allowed to warm or is exposed for long to the air. To quote 
Professor Saintsbury: "The last glass of claret or Burgundy 
is as good as the first; but the first glass of Chateau d'Yquem 
or Montrachet is a great deal better than the last"! This does not 
mean, though, that a red wine improves with prolonged aeration: there 
is a reasonable limit- and wines kept over to the next meal or 
the next day, after they have once been opened, are never as good. If 
this must be done, they should always be corked and kept in a cool place; 
it should be remembered that their lasting qualities are appreciably 
shorter than those of milk.   A few red wines, notably those 
of the Beaujolais, are better consumed at cellar temperature. By 
tradition, a red wine should be served at approximately room temperature- 
if anything a little cooler- and be aged enough for the tannin 
and acids to have worked out and the sediment have settled well. Thus, 
red wine must, if possible, never be disturbed or shaken; very old 
red wine is often decanted so that the puckering, bitter elements which 
have settled to the bottom will not be mingled with the wine itself. 
A tug-of-war between an old bottle and an inefficient corkscrew may 
do as much harm as a week at sea. The cork should be pulled gradually 
and smoothly, and the lip of the bottle wiped afterward.   Many 
people use wicker cradles for old red wine, lifting the bottle carefully 
from the bin into the cradle and eventually to the table, without 
disturbing the sediment. Another school frowns on such a shortcut, and 
insists that after leaving the bin an old red wine should first stand 
on end for several days to allow the sediment to roll to the very bottom, 
after which the bottle may be gently eased to a tilted position 
on its side in the cradle.   In France, when one wishes to entertain 
at a restaurant and serve truly fine old red wines, one visits the 
restaurant well ahead of time, chooses the wines and, with the advice 
of the manager and his chef, builds the menu around them. The wine 
waiter will see to it that the bottles are taken from the bin and opened 
at least in time to warm and aerate, preferably allowed to stand on 
end for as long as possible and, perhaps in the case of very old wines, 
be decanted. Decanting old wine aerates it fully; it may also be- 
practically speaking- a matter of good economy. For, in the process 
of decanting, the bottle is only tilted once instead of several 
or more times at the table: hence, a minimum of the undesirable mixture 
of wine and dregs.   Though there are many exceptions, which 
we have noted in preceding pages, white wine is as a rule best consumed 
between two and six years old, and red wines, nowadays, between three 
and ten. Red wines of good years tend to mature later and to keep 
longer; the average claret is notably longer-lived than its opposite 
number, red Burgundy. Some clarets do not come into their own until 
they are ten or fifteen years of age, or even more. If a red Bordeaux 
of a good name and year is bitter or acid, or cloying and muddy-tasting, 
leave it alone for a while. Most of the wines of Beaujolais, on 
the other hand, <should> be drunk while very young; and Alsatians 
<may> be. 
Giffen replied punctually and enthusiastically: "Rest assured that 
your accompanying Letter of Instructions shall be in the Letter 
and Spirit strictly complied with **h and most particularly in regard 
to that part of them relative to the completion of your noble and humane 
views".   Giffen lost no time in visiting the plantation. 
The slaves appeared to be in good health and at work under John Palfrey's 
overseer. An excellent crop was expected that year. 
William, 
who lived in neighboring St& Mary's parish, had taken charge and 
decided that it would be best for all if the plantation were operated 
for another year. Giffen advised acceptance of this plan, citing the 
depressed market for land then prevailing and the large stock of provisions 
at the plantation. If sold then, the land and improvements might 
bring only $5,000. Early in January, 1844 he had a conference with 
Henry and William in New Orleans, and upon learning of Gorham's 
intention, Henry remonstrated calmly but firmly with his brother. 
The emancipation plan would not only be injurious to all the heirs, 
he contended, but would be a form of cruelty perpetrated on the hapless 
Negroes. They were not capable of supporting themselves off the plantation, 
and Louisiana law required their removal from the state. Gorham 
refused to accept money for slave property, but did he realize how 
much expense and trouble the transportation of his Negroes to the 
North involved? The suggestion that Giffen hire out the slaves was 
not realistic, since no planter would take the risk of having Negroes 
who knew they were to be free living with his own slaves. Henry hid 
his annoyance, although both he and William were furious with their 
Yankee brother. William, who did not write to Gorham, told Giffen 
that unless he could operate the plantation as usual for a year, he would 
sue "amicably" to protect his interests.   Palfrey was 
determined 
that his portion of the slaves be converted to wage laborers 
during the transition period before emancipation. If William wished 
to continue operations for a year, why not simply leave the Negroes 
undisturbed and pay them "as high wages to remain there as are ever 
paid the labor of persons of their sex + age. A disposition to exert 
themselves for my benefit would perhaps be a motive with some of them 
**h to come into the scheme. Their having family ties on our plantation 
+ the adjoining one would be a stronger inducement". When he heard 
of his brothers' anger, Palfrey was still hopeful that they could 
be persuaded to accept his notion of paying wages. If not, he was willing 
to accede to William's wishes in any way that did not block 
his ultimate aim. William was adamant on one point: under no circumstances 
would he allow the Negroes to remain on the plantation with his 
and Henry's slaves if they were told of their coming freedom. Knowing 
the antipathy that existed in Louisiana against increasing the 
number of free Negroes, Giffen suggested that Palfrey bring them 
to Boston at once, and then send them on to Liberia. Lacking specific 
instructions, he agreed to William's condition.   In March 
there was a division of the slaves, and Giffen carried out his instructions 
as nearly as possible. Of the fifty-two slaves, Giffen succeeded 
in getting a lot of twenty, twelve of whom were females. "I considered 
that your views would be best carried out", he explained, 
"by taking women whose progeny will of course be free + more fully extend 
the philantrophy of Emancipation. I have also taken the old servants 
of your father as a matter of Conscience + Justice". The ages 
of the slaves ranged from sixty-five, for an old house servant, to 
an unnamed newborn child. If Palfrey ever had any doubts about the 
wickedness of slavery, they were put aside after he received an inventory 
of the slave property he had inherited. This cold reckoning of human 
worth in a legal paper, devoid of compassion or humanity, was all 
he needed. Each human being, known only by a given name, had a cash value. 
Old Sam's sixty-five years had reduced his value to $150; 
Rose, a twelve-year-old with child-bearing potential, was worth $400. 
In rejecting any claim to the value of the slave property, Palfrey 
was giving up close to $7,000.   Palfrey's brothers each received 
lots of sixteen Negroes, and for bookkeeping purposes it was agreed 
that all lots were to be valued at $6,666.66. Thus twenty "black 
souls" were to remain ignorant of their imminent journey to the land 
of free men. Giffen extracted one concession from William: the house 
servants could be free at any time Gorham thought expedient.

Despite Giffen's warning, Palfrey still had plans for freeing 
his slaves in Louisiana. Yet even if he could get the necessary approval, 
fourteen of his Negroes could not be manumitted without special 
permission. According to state law a slave had to be at least thirty 
years old before he could be freed. Palfrey petitioned the state legislature 
to waive the requirement. Otherwise, freedom would mean removal 
from the state in which "as the place of their past residence from 
birth, or for many years, it would **h be materially for their advantage 
to be at liberty to remain". On March 11 the Louisiana legislature 
voted unanimously to table the petition. News of the legislative 
veto appeared in the New Orleans papers, and Henry and William 
became incensed by the fact that they had not been told of the attempt 
in advance. Henry stormed into Giffen's office waving a copy of 
the New Orleans <Courier,> shouting that the emancipation scheme 
had become a public affair, and that it would reach the "Ears of the 
People on the Plantation, and make them restless + unhappy".

His brothers' anger caused Palfrey genuine concern, for he had 
imposed a dual mission upon himself: to free his slaves, and to keep 
the family from falling apart over the issue. When Giffen decided 
to charge him interest on the loan from John Palfrey, Gorham readily 
assented, vowing that in a matter of dollars and cents, his brothers 
would never have any cause to complain of him.   in view of these 
difficulties, Palfrey decided to go to Louisiana. Giffen had already 
urged him to journey south, if only for a few days to clear up matters. 
His duties as Massachusetts Secretary of State obliged him 
to wait until the adjournment of the legislature in mid-April. Palfrey 
told his wife of his intentions for the first time, and left for New 
Orleans apprehensively invoking a special blessing of Providence 
that he might be allowed to see his family again.   During his journey 
Palfrey stopped off to see two abolitionists. In both cases he 
desired information about placing the freedmen in homes once they arrived 
in the North. In New York, Lydia Maria Child welcomed him 
enthusiastically: "I have lately heard of you from the Legislature 
of Louisiana, and felt joy at your public recognition of the brotherhood 
of man". Mrs& Child, who had once apologized for sending 
editor Palfrey a book on slavery, now confided that she had helped one 
of Henry Palfrey's slaves escape to Canada some years before, 
but asked him not to advertise the fact in Louisiana. She agreed to 
take charge of five or six of the Negroes should Palfrey decide to send 
them north immediately. At Lexington, Kentucky, Palfrey consulted 
with Cassius M& Clay on the same subject, but with no apparent 
result.   Despite his apprehensions about his personal safety, 
Palfrey's reception in New Orleans was more than cordial. Instead 
of the expected "annoyances" due to the nature of his mission, 
he received many calling cards and invitations from "gentlemen of mark, 
on whom I had no sort of claim, + have had many more invitations 
than I could accept". He later told abolitionist Edmund Quincy of 
the "marked attention and civility" with which the New Orleans 
gentlemen and the upriver planters greeted him. The memory of this southern 
hospitality did not survive the trials of coming antislavery years 
and Civil War. Palfrey's autobiography contains a melodramatic 
account of two perilous days spent among the planters of Attakapas, 
"many of whom were coarse + passionate people, much excited by what 
they heard of my plans". He proceeded with his task bravely- in 
his memoirs, at least- before the "passions of my neighbors should 
have time to boil too high".   Palfrey had already made up his 
mind that he would allow the men, but not the women, to choose freely 
whether or not to go North for freedom. The women by remaining behind 
condemned their children, born and unborn, to bondage. He had a 
short private talk with each adult slave. Only one objected, but Palfrey 
soon convinced him that he ought to go with the others. All the 
slaves joined in requesting that they be allowed to delay their departure 
until the end of the planting season, so that they could get in "their 
own little produce". Palfrey agreed; the slaves were to remain 
as wage laborers for his account. William's threat that under 
no conditions would he allow "freedom-conscious" slaves to mix with 
his own was not carried out, for the plantation continued in operation 
as before. Palfrey returned to Massachusetts greatly relieved to 
have made an arrangement "so satisfactory to my judgment + my conscience".

From Cambridge, Palfrey maintained a close interest 
in the welfare of his slaves. In fact, as the time for their departure 
approached, his solicitousness increased. Should any slave change 
his mind and request to leave earlier, Giffen was to provide passage 
at once. When a sailing date of March, 1845 was finally 
established, 
Palfrey made sure that the Negroes would have comfortable quarters 
in New Orleans and aboard ship. Giffen assured him that the captain 
and his mate had personally promised to treat the Negroes with consideration. 
Palfrey was also concerned about the question of what wage 
to pay for their labor throughout 1844. The plantation was sold in January, 
1845, and Palfrey thought the new owner ought to pay his people 
two months' wages. Giffen suggested fifty dollars as fair compensation 
for a year's work; the new owner at Attakapas declined to 
enter into any philanthropic arrangement.   On March 21, 1845 the 
bark <Bashaw> weighed anchor at New Orleans, while on the levee 
Henry and William Palfrey waved farewell to their father's former 
chattels who must have looked back at the receding shore with mingled 
regret and jubilation.   Not all of Palfrey's slaves were 
aboard the <Bashaw>. Giffen had advised that it would not be too difficult 
to obtain freedom locally for the old house servants. Two of 
these were included in Palfrey's lot. Giffen filed a petition for 
permission to emancipate four slaves (all more than fifty years old) 
with the St& Martin's Parish Police Jury. After an initial rejection, 
which he attributed to a "general Excitement against Abolition 
and Emancipation", Giffen bribed the right individuals on the 
jury, and got the permission without further delay.   When the 
Negroes landed at Boston a month later they were, of course, no longer 
slaves. Slavery was prohibited in Massachusetts by the terms of 
the constitution of 1780, which declared "all men are born free and 
equal". Nevertheless, Palfrey arranged a religious ceremony at King's 
Chapel to formalize the emancipation. An eyewitness recalled 
how awkward the red-turbaned colored women appeared as they curtseyed 
in the church doorway, and the diffidence the former slaves displayed 
while they listened to the few words that declared them free.

Once the question of emancipation was settled to Palfrey's satisfaction, 
he faced a real problem in placing the freedmen in suitable homes 
as servants. Palfrey tried fruitlessly to place a Negro boy in 
the Hopedale Community, but he had better luck in his other attempts. 
Mrs& Child, true to her word, helped place Anna and her four children 
with a Quaker 
family named Hathaway near Canandaigua, New York. 
This group had been Palfrey's greatest worry since Anna was 
in bad health, and her children were too young to work for their keep.

But certainly the New Frontier has brought to Washington a 
group more varied in background and interest. Secretary of State Dean 
Rusk, a former Rhodes Scholar and Mills College dean, has headed 
the Rockefeller Foundation and in that role expended large sums for 
international cultural exchange. One of his initial acts in office 
was to appoint Philip Coombs of the Ford Foundation as the first 
Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs. 
("In the late forties and fifties", Coombs has declared in defining 
his role, "two strong new arms were added to reinforce United 
States foreign policy **h economic assistance and military assistance. 
As we embark upon the sixties we have an opportunity **h to build 
a third strong arm, aimed at the development of people, at the fuller 
realization of their creative human potential, and at better understanding 
among them".)   Many of the new appointees are art collectors. 
Ambassador-at-Large Averell Harriman has returned to the capital 
with a collection of paintings that include Renoir, Cezanne, Gauguin, 
Van Gogh, Toulouse-Lautrec, Degas, Matisse, Picasso, and 
Walt Kuhn. The Director of the Peace Corps, R& Sargent Shriver, 
Jr&, a Kennedy brother-in-law, collects heavily among the moderns, 
including Kenzo Okada and Josef Albers. Secretary of the Treasury 
Douglas Dillon owns a prize Monet, <Femmes dans un jardin>.

Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara, former President 
of the Ford Motor Company, comes from a generation different from 
that of Eisenhower's own first Secretary of Defense, Charles Wilson, 
who had been head of General Motors. Unlike Wilson, who at 
times seemed almost anti-intellectual in his earthy pragmatism. McNamara 
is the scholar-businessman. An inveterate reader of books, he chose 
while working in Detroit to live in the University community of 
Ann Arbor, almost forty miles away. He selected as Comptroller of 
Defense, not a veteran accountant, but a former Rhodes Scholar, Charles 
Hitch, who is author of a study on <The Economics of Defense 
in the Nuclear Age>.   One of the President's special assistants, 
the Harvard dean McGeorge Bundy, was co-author with Henry 
L& Stimson of the latter's classic memoir, <On Active Service>. 
Another, Arthur M& Schlesinger, Jr&, has won a Pulitzer 
Prize in history; his wife, Marion, is a portrait painter. The 
Press Secretary, Pierre Salinger, was a child prodigy as a pianist. 
("It is always of sorrow to me when I find people who **h neither 
know nor understand music", he declared not long ago in proposing 
that White House prizes be awarded for music and art.) Mrs& Arthur 
Goldberg, wife of the Secretary of Labor, paints professionally 
and helps sponsor the Associated Artists' Gallery in the District 
of Columbia. ("Artists are always at a new frontier", she claims. 
"In fact, the search is almost more important than the find".) 
Mrs& Henry Labouisse, wife of the new director of the foreign 
aid program, is the writer and lecturer Eve Curie.   The list 
goes on. At last count, sixteen former Rhodes Scholars (see box on 
page 13) had been appointed to the Administration, second in number 
only to its Harvard graduates. Besides Schlesinger, the Justice Department's 
Information Director, Edwin Guthman, has won a Pulitzer 
Prize (for national reporting). Postmaster General J& Edward 
Day, who must deal with matters of postal censorship, is himself 
author of a novel, <Bartholf Street,> albeit one he was obliged to 
publish 
at his own expense.   Two men show promise of playing prominent 
roles:   William Walton, a writer-turned-painter, has 
been a long-time friend of the President. They arrived in Washington 
about the same time during the early postwar years: Kennedy as the 
young Congressman from Massachusetts; Walton, after a wartime stint 
with <Time-Life>, to become bureau chief for the <New Republic>. 
Both lived in Georgetown, were unattached, and shared an active 
social life. Walton, who soon made a break from journalism to become 
one of the capital's leading semi-abstract painters, vows that he 
and Kennedy never once discussed art in those days. Nonetheless, they 
found common interests. During last year's campaign, Kennedy asked 
Walton, an utter novice in organization politics, to assist him. 
Walton dropped everything to serve as a district co-ordinator in the 
hard-fought Wisconsin primary and proved so useful that he was promoted 
to be liaison officer to critically important New York City.

Walton, who served as a correspondent with General James Gavin's 
paratroopers during the invasion of France, combines the soul 
of an artist with the lingo of a tough guy. He provoked outraged editorials 
when, after a post-Inaugural inspection of the White House 
with Mrs& Kennedy, he remarked to reporters, "We just cased the 
joint to see what was there". But his credentials are impeccable. 
Already the President and the First Lady have deputized him to advise 
on matters ranging from the furnishing of the White House to the 
renovation of Lafayette Square. A man of great talent, he will continue 
to serve as a sort of Presidential trouble-shooter, strictly ex 
officio, for culture.   A more official representative is the Secretary 
of the Interior. Udall, who comes from one of the Mormon 
first-families of Arizona, is a bluff, plain-spoken man with a lust 
for politics and a habit of landing right in the middle of the fight. 
But even while sparring furiously with Republican politicians, he displays 
a deep and awesome veneration for anyone with cultural attainments. 
His private dining room has become a way station for visiting intellectuals 
such as C& P& Snow, Arnold Toynbee, and Aaron Copland.

Udall argues that Interior affairs should cover a great 
deal more than dams and wildlife preserves. After promoting Frost's 
appearance at the Inauguration, he persuaded the poet to return 
several months later to give a reading to a select audience of Cabinet 
members, members of Congress, and other Washington notables gathered 
in the State Department auditorium. The event was so successful 
that the Interior Secretary plans to serve as impresario for similar 
ones from time to time, hoping thereby to add to the cultural enrichment 
of the Administration.   His Ideas in this respect, however, 
sometimes arouse critical response. One tempest was stirred up last 
March when Udall announced that an eight-and-a-half-foot bronze statue 
of William Jennings Bryan, sculpted by the late Gutzon Borglum, 
would be sent "on indefinite loan" to Salem, Illinois, Bryan's 
birthplace. Spokesmen for the nation's tradition-minded sculptors 
promptly claimed that Udall was exiling the statue because of his 
own hostility to this art form. They dug up a speech he had made two 
years earlier as a Congressman, decrying the more than two hundred 
statues, monuments, and memorials which "dot the Washington landscape 
**h as patriotic societies and zealous friends are constantly hatching 
new plans". Hoping to cut down on such works, Udall had proposed 
that a politician be at least fifty years departed before he is memorialized.

He is not likely to win this battle easily. In the 
case of the Borglum statue an Interior aide was obliged to announce 
that there had been a misunderstanding and that the Secretary had no 
desire to "hustle" it out of Washington. The last Congress adopted 
seven bills for memorials, including one to Taras Shevchenko, 
the Ukrainian poet laureate; eleven others were introduced. Active 
warfare is raging between the forces pressing for a monument to the first 
Roosevelt on Theodore Roosevelt Island in the Potomac, and T& 
R&'s own living children, who wish to preserve the island as 
a wildlife sanctuary. The hotly debated plan for the capital's Franklin 
D& Roosevelt Memorial, a circle of huge tablets engraved with 
his speeches (and promptly dubbed by one of its critics, "Instant 
Stonehenge"), is another of Udall's headaches, since as supervisor 
of the National Parks Commission he will share in the responsibility 
for building it.   "Washington", President Kennedy 
has been heard to remark ironically, "is a city of southern efficiency 
and northern charm". There have been indications that he hopes 
to redress that situation, commencing with the White House. One of 
Mrs& Kennedy's initial concerns as First Lady was the sad state 
of the furnishings in a building which is supposed to be a national 
shrine. Ever since the fire of 1812 destroyed the beautiful furniture 
assembled by President Thomas Jefferson, the White House has collected 
a hodgepodge of period pieces, few of them authentic or aesthetic.

Mrs& Kennedy shows a determination to change all this. 
Not long after moving in she turned up a richly carved desk, hewed from 
the timbers of the British ship H&M&S& <Resolute> and 
presented to 
President Hayes by Queen Victoria. It now serves the President 
in his oval office. Later, browsing in an old issue of the 
<Gazette des Beaux-Arts,> she found a description of a handsome gilt 
pier-table purchased in 1817 by President James Monroe. She traced 
it to a storage room. With its coating of gold radiator paint removed- 
a gaucherie of some earlier tenant- it will now occupy its 
rightful place in the oval Blue Room on the first floor of the White 
House.   But it soon became clear that the search for eighteenth-century 
furniture (which Mrs& Kennedy feels is the proper period 
for 
the White House) must be pursued in places other than government storage 
rooms. 
The First Lady appointed a Fine Arts Advisory Committee 
for the White House, to locate authentic pieces as well as to arrange 
ways to acquire them. Her effort to put the home of living Presidents 
on the same basis as Mount Vernon and Monticello recognizes 
no party lines. By rough estimate her Committee, headed by Henry 
Francis Du Pont, contains three times as many Republicans as Democrats.

The press releases emanating from the White House give 
a clue to the activity within. A curator has been appointed. A valuable 
pencil-and-sepia allegorical drawing of Benjamin Franklin by Jean-Honore 
Fragonard has been donated by the art dealer Georges Wildenstein 
and now hangs in the Blue Room. The American Institute 
of Interior Designers is redecorating the White House library. Secretary 
and Mrs& Dillon have contributed enough pieces of Empire 
furniture, including Dolley Madison's own sofa, to furnish a room 
in that style. And part of a fabulous collection of <vermeil> hollowware, 
bequeathed to the White House by the late Mrs& Margaret 
Thompson Biddle, has been taken out of its locked cases and put on display 
in the State dining room.   Woman's place is in the home: 
man must attend to matters of the yard. One of the vexatious problems 
to first confront President Kennedy was the property lying just 
across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House. Congress had 
already appropriated money, and plans were well along to tear down the 
buildings flanking Lafayette Square and replace them with what one 
critic calls the "marble monumentality" of government office buildings. 
While a Senator, Kennedy had unsuccessfully pushed a bill to 
preserve the Belasco Theater, as well as the Dolley Madison and the 
Benjamin Taylor houses, all scheduled for razing.   What to 
do about it now that he was President? Only a few days after moving 
into the White House. Kennedy made a midnight inspection of the Square. 
Then he called in his friend Walton and turned over the problem 
to him, with instructions to work out what was best- provided it 
didn't pile unnecessary burdens on the President.   The situation 
involved some political perils. One of the offices slated for reconstruction 
is the aged Court of Claims, diagonally across the street 
from the White House. Logically, it should be moved downtown. But 
Judge Marvin Jones, senior member of the Court, is an elderly 
gentleman who lives at the nearby Metropolitan Club and desires to walk 
to work. More importantly, he also happens to be the brother-in-law 
of Sam Rayburn, Speaker of the House.   There were aesthetic 
problems as well as political. On delving deeper, Walton discovered 
that most of the buildings fronting the Square could be classified 
as "early nondescript". The old Belasco Theater, over which many 
people had grown sentimental, was only a shell of its former self 
after arduous years as a ~USO Center. The Dolley Madison House, 
Walton concluded, was scarcely worth preserving. "The attempt 
to save the Square's historic value", he declares, "came half a 
century too late". 
Surrounded by ancient elms, the campus is spacious and beautiful. The 
buildings are mostly Georgian. The Dartmouth student does not live 
in monastic seclusion, as he once did. But his is still a simple life 
relatively free of the female presence or influence, and he must go 
far, even though he may go fast, for sophisticated pleasures. He is 
still heir to the rare gifts of space and silence, if he chooses to be.

He is by no means the country boy he might have been in the 
last century, down from the hills with bear grease on his hair and a zeal 
for book learning in his heart. The men's shops on Hanover's 
Main Street compare favorably with those in Princeton and New Haven. 
And the automobiles that stream out of Hanover each weekend, 
toward Smith and Wellesley and Mount Holyoke, are no less rakish than 
those leaving Cambridge or West Philadelphia. But there has 
always been an outdoor air to Dartmouth. The would-be sophisticate 
and the citybred youth adopt this air without embarrassment. No one 
here pokes fun at manly virtues. And this gives rise to an easy camaraderie 
probably unequaled elsewhere in the Ivy League. It even affects 
the faculty.   Thus, when Dartmouth's Winter Carnival- 
widely recognized as the greatest, wildest, roaringest college weekend 
anywhere, any time- was broadcast over a national television hookup, 
Prexy John Sloan Dickey appeared on the screen in rugged winter 
garb, topped off by a tam-o'-shanter which he confessed had been 
acquired from a Smith girl. President Dickey's golden retriever, 
frolicking in the snow at his feet, added to the picture of masculine 
informality.   This carefree disdain for "side" cropped up 
again in the same television broadcast. Dean Thaddeus Seymour, wearing 
ski clothes, was crowning a beauteous damsel queen of the Carnival. 
She must have looked temptingly pretty to the dean as he put the crown 
on her head. So he kissed her. No Dartmouth man was surprised.

Dartmouth students enjoy other unusual diversions with equal 
<sang-froid>. For example, groups regularly canoe down the Connecticut 
River. This is in honor of John Ledyard, class of 1773, who scooped 
a canoe out of a handy tree and first set the course way back in 
his own student days. And these hardy travelers are not unappreciated 
today. They are hailed by the nation's press, and Smith girls throng 
the riverbanks at Northampton and refresh the <voyageurs> with 
hot soup and kisses.   Dartmouth's favorite and most characteristic 
recreation is skiing. Since the days when their two thousand 
pairs of skis outnumbered those assembled anywhere else in the United 
States, the students have stopped regarding the Olympic Ski Team 
as another name for their own. Yet Dartmouth still is the dominant 
member of the Intercollegiate Ski Union, which includes the winter 
sports colleges of Canada as well as those of this country.   Dartmouth 
students ski everywhere in winter, starting with their own front 
door. They can hire a horse and go ski-joring behind him, or move 
out to Oak Hill, where there's a lift. The Dartmouth Skiway, 
at Holt's Ledge, ten miles north of the campus, has one of the best 
terrains in the East, ranging from novice to expert.   Forty 
miles farther north is Mount Moosilauke, Dartmouth's own mountain. 
Here, at the Ravine Lodge, President Dickey acts as host every 
year to about a hundred freshmen who are being introduced by the Dartmouth 
Outing Club to life on the trails. The Lodge, built of hand-hewn 
virgin spruce, can handle fifty people for dining, sleeping, or 
lounging in its huge living room. The Outing Club also owns a chain 
of fourteen cabins and several shelters, extending from the Vermont 
hills, just across the river from the college, through Hanover to the 
College Grant- 27,000 acres of wilderness 140 miles north up in 
the logging country. The cabins are equipped with bunks, blankets, 
and cooking equipment and are ideal bases for hikes and skiing trips. 
The club runs regular trips to the cabins, but many of the students 
prefer to take off in small unofficial groups for a weekend of hunting, 
fishing, climbing, or skiing.   Under the auspices of the Outing 
Club, Dartmouth also has the Mountaineering Club, which takes 
on tough climbs like Mount McKinley, and Bait + Bullet, whose interests 
are self-evident, and even sports a Woodman's Team, which 
competes with other New England colleges in wood sawing and 
chopping, 
canoe races, and the like.   There is much to be said for a college 
that, while happily attuned to the sophisticated Ivies, still gives 
its students a chance to get up early in the morning and drive along 
back roads where a glimpse of small game, deer, or even bear is not 
uncommon. City boys find a lot of learning in the feel of an ax handle 
or in the sharp tang of a sawmill, come upon suddenly in a backwoods 
logging camp. And on the summit of Mount Washington, where thirty-five 
degrees below zero is commonplace and the wind velocity has registered 
higher than anywhere else in the world, there is a kind of wisdom 
to be found that other men often seek in the Himalayas "because 
it is there".   There is much to be said for such a college- 
and Dartmouth men have been accused of saying it too often and too 
loudly. Their affection for their college home has even caused President 
Dickey to comment on this "place loyalty" as something rather 
specially Hanoverian.   Probably a lawyer once said it best for 
all time in the Supreme Court of the United States. Early in the 
nineteenth century the State of New Hampshire was casting about 
for a way to found its own state university. It fixed on Dartmouth College, 
which was ready-made and just what the proctor ordered. The 
legislators decided to "liberate" Dartmouth and entered into a tug-o'-war 
with the college trustees over the control of classrooms, faculty, 
and chapel. For a time there were two factions on the campus 
fighting for possession of the student body.   The struggle was 
resolved in 1819 in the Supreme Court in one of the most intriguing 
cases in our judicial history. In 1817 the lawyers were generally debating 
the legal inviolability of private contracts and charters. A lawyer, 
hired by the college, was arguing specifically for Dartmouth: 
Daniel Webster, class of 1801, made her plight the dramatic focus 
of his whole plea. In an age of oratory, he was the king of orators, 
and both he himself and Chief Justice Marshall were bathed in manly 
tears, as Uncle Dan'l reached his thundering climax:   "It 
is, sir, as I have said, a small college, and yet there are those 
who love it **h".   Dartmouth is today still a small college- 
and still a private one, thanks to Webster's eloquence.   This 
is not out of keeping with its origins, probably the most humble of 
any in the Ivy group. Eleazar Wheelock, a Presbyterian minister, 
founded the school in 1769, naming it after the second earl of Dartmouth, 
its sponsor and benefactor. Eleazar, pausing on the Hanover plain, 
found its great forests and remoteness good and with his own hands 
built the first College Hall, a log hut dedicated "for the education 
+ instruction of Youth of the Indian Tribes in this Land in reading, 
writing + all parts of learning which shall appear necessary and 
expedient for civilizing + christianizing Children of Pagans as well 
as in all liberal Arts and Sciences; and also of English Youth 
and any others".   It was a hardy undertaking, and Wheelock's 
was indeed "a voice crying in the wilderness". A road had to 
be 
hacked through trackless forests between Hanover and Portsmouth to 
permit Governor Wentworth and a company of gentlemen to attend the first 
Dartmouth commencement in 1771. The governor and his retinue thoughtfully 
brought with them a glorious silver punchbowl which is still 
one of the cherished possessions of the college.   The exuberance 
on this occasion set a standard for subsequent Dartmouth gatherings. 
A student orator "produced tears from a great number of the learned" 
even before the punch was served. Then from the branches of a 
near-by tree an Indian underclassman, disdaining both the platform and 
the English language, harangued the assemblage in his aboriginal tongue. 
Governor Wentworth contributed an ox for a barbecue on the green 
beneath the three-hundred-foot pines, and a barrel of rum was broached. 
The cook got drunk, and President Wheelock proved to be a man 
of broad talents by carving the ox himself.   Future commencements 
were more decorous perhaps, but the number of graduates increased 
from the original four at a relatively slow pace. By the end of the 
nineteenth 
century, in 1893, when the Big Three, Columbia, and Penn 
were populous centers of learning, Dartmouth graduated only sixty-nine. 
The dormitories, including the beloved Dartmouth Hall, could barely 
house two hundred students in Spartan fashion.   Then in 1893 
Dr& William Jewett Tucker became president and the college's 
great awakening began. He transformed Dartmouth from a small New 
Hampshire institution into a national college. By 1907 the number of 
undergraduates had risen to 1,107. And at his last commencement, in 
that year, Dr& Tucker and Dartmouth were honored by the presence 
of distinguished academic visitors attesting to the new stature of the 
college. The presidents of Cornell, Wisconsin, C&C&N&Y&, 
Bowdoin, Vermont, Brown, Columbia, Princeton, Yale, and Harvard 
and the presidents emeritus of Harvard and Michigan were there.

Dartmouth is numerically still a small college today, with approximately 
twenty-nine hundred undergraduates. But it has achieved a 
cross-section of students from almost all the states, and two-thirds of 
its undergraduates come from outside New England. Over 450 different 
schools are usually represented in each entering class. Only a dozen 
or so schools send as many as six students, and there are seldom more 
than fifteen men in any single delegation. About two-thirds of the 
boys now come from public schools.   It is still a college only 
and not a university; it is, in fact, the only college in the Ivy 
group. However, three distinguished associated graduate schools offer 
professional curriculums- the Dartmouth Medical School (third oldest 
in the country and founded in 1797), the Thayer School of Engineering, 
and the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration. All 
three are purposely kept small, with a current total enrollment of 
about two hundred.   All three schools coordinate their educational 
programs with that of the undergraduate college and, like the college 
proper, 
place emphasis upon a broad liberal arts course as the proper foundation 
for specialized study. Students of the college who are candidates 
for the A&B& degree and can satisfy the academic requirements 
of the medical and business schools, may enter either of these associated 
schools at the beginning of senior year, thus completing the 
two-year postgraduate course in one year. The Thayer School offers 
a year of postgraduate study in somewhat the same way, after a boy wins 
a B&S& in engineering.   So Dartmouth is moving closer 
to the others in the Ivy group. It is still, however, the junior member 
of the League, if not in years at least in the catching up it has 
had to do. It has not been a well-known school for any part of the span 
the other Ivies have enjoyed. However much football has been over-emphasized, 
the public likes to measure its collegiate favorites by 
the scoreboard, so, while Yale need never give its record a thought again 
since outscoring its opponents 694 to 0 in the season of 1888, Dartmouth 
had to wait until its championship team of 1925 for national 
recognition.   It has come on with a rush in more significant areas. 
Today it espouses certain ideas in its curriculum that other institutions 
might consider somewhat breathtaking. But Dartmouth preserves 
its youthful brashness even in its educational attitudes, and, although 
some of its experiments may still be in the testing stage, they 
make for lively copy.   President Emeritus Hopkins once proposed 
to corral an "aristocracy of brains" in Hanover. 
The person who left the buggy there has never been identified. It was 
a busy street, conveniently near the shopping center, and unattended 
horses and wagons were often left at the curbside.   There are, 
of course, many weaknesses in any case against Emma. She didn't like 
her stepmother, but nothing is known to have occurred shortly before 
the crime that could have caused such a murderous rage. She had no 
way of knowing in advance whether an opportunity for murder existed. 
She would have been taking more than a fair risk of being seen and recognized 
during her travels. If she avoided the train and hired a buggy, 
the stableman might have recognized her. If police had checked on 
her more thoroughly than is indicated, she would be completely eliminated 
as a suspect. ##

Uncle John Vinnicum Morse was the immediate 
popular suspect. His sudden unannounced appearance at the Borden 
home was strange in that he did not carry an iota of baggage with him, 
although he clearly intended to stay overnight, if not longer.

Lizzie stated during the inquest that while her father and uncle were 
in the sitting room the afternoon before the murders, she had been 
disturbed by their voices and had closed her door, even though it was 
a very hot day.   It is evident that Lizzie did not tell everything 
she overheard between her father and her Uncle Morse. At that 
time Jennings had a young law associate named Arthur S& Phillips. 
A few years ago, not too long before his death, Phillips revealed 
in a newspaper story that he had always suspected Morse of the murders. 
He said Morse and Borden had quarreled violently in the house that 
day, information which must have come from Lizzie. It was obviously 
the sound of this argument that caused Lizzie to close her door.

The New Bedford <Standard-Times> has reported Knowlton 
as saying, long after the trial, that if he only knew what Borden said 
during his conversation with Morse, he would have convicted "somebody". 
Notice, Knowlton did not say that he would have obtained a 
conviction in the trial of Lizzie Borden. He said he would have convicted 
"somebody".   It is known that Morse did associate with 
a group of itinerant horse traders who made their headquarters at 
Westport, a town not far from Fall River. They were a vagabond lot 
and considered to be shady and undesirable characters. Fall River police 
did go to Westport to see if they could get any information against 
Morse and possibly find an accomplice whom he might have hired from 
among these men. These officers found no incriminating information.

Morse's alibi was not as solid as it seemed. He said he 
returned from the visit to his niece on the 11:20 streetcar. The woman 
in the house where the niece was staying backed up his story and said 
she left when he did to shop for her dinner. Fall River is not a 
fashionable town. The dinner hour there was twelve noon. If this woman 
had delayed until after 11:20 to start her shopping, she would have 
had little time in which to prepare the substantial meal that was 
eaten at dinner in those days. It is possible that Morse told the woman 
it was 11:20, but it could have been earlier, since she did serve 
dinner on time. Police did make an attempt to check on Morse's alibi. 
They interviewed the conductor of the streetcar Morse said he 
had taken, but the man did not remember Morse as a passenger. Questioned 
further, Morse said that there had been four or five priests riding 
on the same car with him. The conductor did recall having priests 
as passengers and this satisfied police, although the conductor also 
pointed out that in heavily Catholic Fall River there were priests 
riding on almost every trip the streetcar made, so Morse's statement 
really proved nothing.   We do know that Morse left the house 
before nine o'clock. Bridget testified she saw him leave through the 
side door. Morse said Borden let him out and locked the screen door. 
From that point on he said he went to the post office and then walked 
leisurely to where his niece was staying, more than a mile away. 
He met nobody he knew on this walk. There is no accounting of his movements 
in this long gap of time which covers the early hours when Mrs& 
Borden was killed.   Morse testified that while he was having 
breakfast in the dining room, Mrs& Borden told the servant, "Bridget, 
I want you to wash these windows today". Bridget's testimony 
was in direct contradiction. She said it was after she returned 
from her vomiting spell in the back yard that Mrs& Borden told 
her to wash the windows. This was long after Morse had left the house.

Morse's knowledge of what Mrs& Borden told Bridget could 
indicate that he had returned secretly to the house and was hidden 
there. He knew the house fairly well, he had been there on two previous 
visits during the past three or four months alone. And despite Knowlton's 
attempts to show that the house was locked up tighter than 
a drum, this was not true. The screen door was unlocked for some ten 
or fifteen minutes while Bridget was sick in the back. It was unlocked 
all the time she was washing windows. Morse could have returned 
openly while Bridget was sick in the back yard and gone up to the room 
he had occupied. Mrs& Borden would not have been alarmed if she 
saw Morse with an ax or hatchet in his hand. He had been to the farm 
the previous day and he could have said they needed the ax or hatchet 
at the farm. Mrs& Borden would have had no reason to disbelieve him 
and he could have approached close enough to her to swing before she 
could cry out. He could have left for Weybosset Street after her 
murder and made it in plenty of time by using the streetcar.   If 
he took an earlier streetcar than the 11:20 on his return, he could 
have arrived at the Borden house shortly after Mr& Borden came 
home. With Lizzie in the barn, the screen door unlocked and Bridget 
upstairs in her attic room, he would have had free and easy access to 
the house. With the second murder over, he could have left, hidden the 
weapon in some vacant lot or an abandoned cistern in the neighborhood. 
His unconcerned stroll down the side of the house to a pear tree, 
with crowds already gathering in front of the building and Sawyer guarding 
the side door, was odd. There was no close examination of his 
clothes for bloodstains, and certainly no scientific test was made of 
them. And for a man who traveled around without any change of clothing, 
a few more stains on his dark suit may very well have gone unnoticed.

The motive may have been the mysterious quarrel; there was 
no financial gain for Morse in the murders.   On the other side 
of the ledger is the fact that he did see his niece and the woman with 
whom she was staying. The time would have been shortly after the 
murder of Mrs& Borden and they noticed nothing unusual in his behavior. 
He said he had promised Mrs& Borden to return in time for dinner 
and that was close to the time when he did turn up at the Borden 
house. ##

What did Pearson say about Bridget Sullivan as a possible 
suspect in his trial-book essay? He wrote:   "The 
police soon ceased to look upon either Bridget or Mr& Morse as in 
possession of guilty knowledge. Neither had any interest in the deaths; 
indeed, it was probably to Mr& Morse's advantage to have 
Mr& and Mrs& Borden alive. Both he and Bridget were exonerated 
by Lizzie herself". That was his complete discussion of Bridget 
Sullivan as a possible suspect.   Although Pearson disbelieved 
almost everything Lizzie said, and read a sinister purpose into almost 
everything she did, he happily accepted her statement about Bridget 
as the whole truth. He felt nothing further need be said about the 
servant girl.   The exoneration Pearson speaks of is not an exoneration, 
but Lizzie's expression of her opinion, as reported in the 
testimony of Assistant Marshal Fleet. This officer had asked Lizzie 
if she suspected her Uncle Morse, and she replied she didn't 
think he did it because he left the house before the murders and returned 
after them. Fleet asked the same question about Bridget, and Lizzie 
pointed out that as far as she knew Bridget had gone up to her 
room 
before her father's murder and came down when she called her.

Lizzie, actually, never named any suspect. She told police about 
the prospective tenant she had heard quarreling with her father some 
weeks before the murders, but she said she thought he was from out of 
town because she heard him mention something about talking to his partner. 
And, much as she detested Hiram Harrington, she also did not 
accuse him. At the inquest she was asked specifically whether she knew 
anybody her father had bad feelings toward, or who had bad feelings 
toward 
her father. She replied, "I know of one man that has not been 
friendly with him. They have not been friendly for years". Asked 
who this was, she named Harrington. Her statement certainly was true; 
the press reported the same facts in using Harrington's interview, 
but Lizzie did not suggest at the inquest that Harrington was the 
killer.   When I interviewed Kirby, who as a boy picked up pears 
in the Borden yard, I asked if anybody else in the household besides 
Lizzie and Morse had been under any suspicion at the time of the 
murders. He said he had not heard of anybody else. "How about Bridget 
Sullivan"? I inquired. "Oh, she was just the maid there", 
he replied, waving a hand to indicate how completely unimportant 
she was. Kirby was, of course, reflecting the opinion that existed 
at the time of the murders.   Everyone somehow manages to overlook 
completely the fact that, as far as we know, there were exactly two 
people in and about the house at the time of both murders: Lizzie 
Borden and Bridget Sullivan.   All the officials on the case 
seem to have been afflicted with a similar myopia as far as Bridget was 
concerned, although records in police files contain many reports of 
servants who have murdered their employers. True, it is no longer cricket 
for the butler to be the killer in mystery fiction, but we are dealing 
here with actual people in real life and not imaginary characters 
and situations.   The actions of Bridget should be examined, 
since she was there and opportunity did exist, if only to establish her 
innocence. There are also other factors that require closer examination.

The legend as it exists in Fall River today always includes 
the solemn assurance that Bridget returned to Ireland after the 
trial with a "big bundle" of cash which Lizzie gave her for keeping 
her mouth shut. The people who believe and retell the legend have 
apparently never troubled to read the trial testimony and do not know 
that the maid changed her testimony on several key points, always to 
the detriment of Lizzie. If Bridget did get any bundles of cash, 
the last person who would have rewarded her for services rendered would 
have been Lizzie Borden.   Bridget was born in Ireland, one 
of fourteen children. She was apparently the pioneer in her family because 
she had no close relatives in this country at that time. She worked 
as a domestic, first in Newport for a year, and then in South 
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, for another year. She finally settled in Fall 
River and, after being employed for a time by a Mrs& Reed, was 
hired by the Bordens.   I have previously described how, during 
the week of the murder, Bridget spent the first few hot days scrubbing 
and ironing clothes. 
Her father, James Upton, was the Upton mentioned by Hawthorne in 
the famous introduction to the <Scarlet Letter> as one of those who 
came into the old custom house to do business with him as the surveyor 
of the port. A gentleman of the old school, Mr& Upton possessed 
intellectual power, ample means, and withal, was a devoted Christian. 
The daughter profited from his interest in scientific and philosophical 
subjects. Her mother also was a person of superior mind and broad 
interests.   There is clear evidence that Lucy from childhood 
had an unusual mind. She possessed an observant eye, a retentive memory, 
and a critical faculty. When she was nine years old, she wrote 
a description of a store she had visited. She named 48 items, and said 
there were "many more things which it would take too long to write". 
An essay on "Freedom" written at 10 years of age quoted the 
Declaration of Independence, the freedom given to slaves in Canada, 
and the views of George Washington.   Lucy Upton was graduated 
from the Salem High School when few colleges, only Oberlin and 
Elmira, were open to women; and she had an appetite for learning 
that could not be denied.   A picture of her in high school comes 
from a younger schoolmate, Albert S& Flint, friend of her brother 
Winslow, and later, like Winslow, a noted astronomer. He recalled 
Lucy, as "a bright-looking black-eyed young lady who came regularly 
through the boys' study hall to join the class in Greek in the little 
recitation room beyond". The study of Greek was the distinctive 
mark of boys destined to go to college, and Lucy Upton too expected 
to go to college and take the full classical course offered to men. 
The death of her mother in 1865 prevented this. With four younger 
children at home, Lucy stepped into her mother's role, and even after 
the brothers and sisters were grown, she was her father's comfort 
and stay until he died in 1879. But even so Lucy could not give up 
her intellectual pursuits. When her brother Winslow became a student 
at Brown University in 1874, she wrote him about a course in history 
he was taking under Professor Diman: "What is Prof& Diman's 
definition of civilization, and take the world through, is its progress 
ever onward, or does it retrograde at times? Do you think I 
might profitably study some of the history you do, perhaps two weeks 
behind you **h". And that she proceeded to do.   Many years later 
(on August 3, 1915), Lucy Upton wrote Winslow's daughter soon 
to be graduated from Smith College: "While I love botany which, 
after dabbling in for years, I studied according to the methods 
of that day exactly forty years ago in a summer school, it must be fascinating 
to take up zoology in the way you are doing. Whatever was the 
science in the high school course for the time being, that was my favorite 
study. Mathematics came next".   Her study of history 
was persistently pursued. She read Maitland's <Dark Ages>, "which 
I enjoyed very much"; La Croix on the <Customs of the Middle 
Ages>; 16 chapters of Bryce "and liked it more and more"; 
more chapters of Guizot; Lecky and Stanley's <Eastern Church>. 
She discussed in her letters to Winslow some of the questions 
that came to her as she studied alone.   Lucy's correspondence 
with brother Winslow during his college days was not entirely taken 
up with academic studies. She played chess with him by postcard. 
Also Lucy and Winslow had a private contest to see which one could 
make the most words from the letters in "importunately". Who won 
is not revealed, but Winslow's daughter Eleanor says they got up to 
1,212 words.   There was another family interest also. Winslow 
had musical talents, as had his father before him. At different times 
he served as glee-club and choir leader and as organist. And it was 
Lucy Upton who first started the idea of a regular course in Music 
at Spelman College.   Winslow Upton after graduation from Brown 
University and two years of graduate study, accepted a position 
at the Harvard Observatory. For three years he was connected with 
the U&S& Naval Observatory and with the U&S& Signal Corps; 
and after 1883, was professor of astronomy at Brown University. 
The six expeditions to study eclipses of the sun, of which he was 
a member, took him to Colorado, Virginia, and California as well as 
to the South Pacific and to Russia. After her father's death, Lucy 
and her youngest sister lived for a few years with Winslow in Washington, 
D&C&. "Their house", writes Albert S& Flint, 
"was always a haven of hospitality and good cheer, especially grateful 
to one like myself far from home". Lucy was a lively part of the 
household. Moreover, she had physical as well as mental vigor. Winslow, 
as his daughters Eleanor and Margaret recall, used to characterize 
her as "our iron sister". There is reason to suppose that Lucy 
would have made a record as publicly distinguished as her brother 
had it not been that her mother's death occurred just as she was about 
to enter college. As a matter of fact, Albert S& Flint expressed 
his conviction that "her physical strength, her mental power, her 
lively interest in all objects about her and her readiness to serve 
her fellow beings" would have led her "to a distinguished career 
amongst the noted women of this country".   While in Washington, 
D&C&, Lucy Upton held positions in the U&S& Census 
Office, and in the Pension Bureau. They were not sufficiently challenging 
however, and she resigned in 1887, to go to Germany with her 
brother Winslow and his family while he was there on study. After the 
months in Europe, she returned to Boston and became active in church 
and community life.   What was called an "accidental meeting" 
with Miss Packard in Washington turned her attention to Spelman. 
Here was a cause she believed in. After correspondence with Miss 
Packard and to the joy of Miss Packard and Miss Giles, she came 
to Atlanta, in the fall of 1888, to help wherever needed, although 
there was then no money available to pay her a salary. She served for 
a number of years without pay beyond her travel and maintenance.

Her students have spoken of the exacting standards of scholarship 
and of manners and conduct she expected and achieved from the students; 
of her "great power of discernment"; of "her exquisiteness 
of dress", "her well-modulated voice that went straight to the hearts 
of the hearers"; her great love of flowers and plants and birds; 
and her close knowledge of individual students.   She drew 
on all her resources of mind and heart to help them- to make them 
at home in the world; and as graduates gratefully recall, she drew on 
her purse as well. Many a student was able to remain at Spelman, only 
because of her unobtrusive help.   Under Miss Upton, the work 
of the year 1909-10 went forward without interruption. After all, 
she had come to Spelman Seminary in 1888, and had been since 1891 except 
for one year, Associate Principal or Dean. She had taught classes 
in botany, astronomy (with the aid of a telescope), geometry, 
and 
psychology.   Miss Upton and Miss Packard, as a matter of fact, 
had many tastes in common. Both had eager and inquiring minds; and 
both believed that intellectual growth must go hand in hand with the 
development of sturdy character and Christian zeal. Both loved the 
out-of-doors, including mountain climbing and horseback riding. In 1890 
when the trip to Europe and the Holy Land was arranged for Miss 
Packard, it was Miss Upton who planned the trip, and "with rare 
executive ability" bore the brunt of "the entire pilgrimage from 
beginning to end". So strenuous it was physically, with its days of 
horseback riding over rough roads that it seems an amazing feat of endurance 
for both Miss Packard and Miss Upton. Yet they thrived on 
it.   At the Fifteenth 
Anniversary (1896) as already quoted, Miss 
Upton projected with force and eloquence the Spelman of the Future 
as a college of first rank, with expanding and unlimited horizons. 
When Dr& Wallace Buttrick, wise in his judgment of people, declined 
to have the Science Building named for him, he wrote Miss Tapley 
(April 7, 1923) "**h If you had asked me, I think I would have 
suggested that you name the building for Miss Upton. Her services 
to the School for many years were of a very high character, and I 
have often thought that one of the buildings should be named for her".

Such were the qualities of the Acting-President of the Seminary 
after the death of Miss Giles.   At the meeting of the 
Board of Trustees, on March 3, 1910, Miss Upton presented the annual 
report of the President. She noted that no student had been withdrawn 
through loss of confidence; that the enrollment showed an increase 
of boarding students as was desired; and that the year's work 
had gone forward smoothly. She urged the importance of more thorough 
preparation for admission. The raising of the $25,000 Improvement 
Fund two days before the time limit expired, and the spontaneous "praise 
demonstration" held afterward on the campus, were reported as 
events which had brought happiness to Miss Giles. With the Fund in 
hand, the debt on the boilers had been paid; Rockefeller and Packard 
Halls had been renovated; walks laid; and ground had been broken 
for the superintendent's home. Miss Upton spoke gratefully of 
the response of Spelman graduates and Negro friends in helping to raise 
the Fund, and their continuing efforts to raise money for greatly 
needed current expenses. She spoke also with deep thankfulness of the 
many individuals and agencies whose interest and efforts through the 
years had made the work so fruitful in results.   Two bequests 
were recorded: one of $200 under the will of Mrs& Harriet A& 
Copp of Los Angeles; and one of $2,000 under the will of Miss Celia 
L& Brett of Hamilton, New York, a friend from the early days.

Miss Upton told the Trustees that the death of Miss Giles 
was "the sorest grief" the Seminary had ever been called upon 
to bear. The daughters of Spelman, she said, had never known or thought 
of Spelman without her. The removal of Miss Packard 18 years earlier 
had caused them great sorrow, but they still had Miss Giles. 
Now the school was indeed bereft. "Yet Spelman has strong, deep roots, 
and will live for the blessing of generations to come". #@# 

Miss Mary Jane Packard, Sophia's half-sister, became ill in 
March, 1910; and when school closed, she was unable to travel to Massachusetts. 
She remained in Atlanta through June and July; she 
died on August sixth.   Before coming on a visit to Spelman 
in 1885, Miss Mary had been a successful teacher in Worcester, and 
her position there was held open for her for a considerable period. But 
she decided to stay at Spelman. She helped with teaching as well 
as office work for a few years- the catalogues show that she had classes 
in geography, rhetoric and bookkeeping. Soon the office work claimed 
all her time. She was closely associated with the Founders in all 
their trials and hardships. Quiet and energetic, cheerful and calm, 
she too was a power in the development of the seminary. Miss Giles 
always used to refer to her as "Sister". She served as secretary 
in the Seminary office for 25 years, and was in charge of correspondence, 
records, and bookkeeping. The books of the school hold a memorial 
to her; and so do the hearts of students and of teachers.

Mary J& Packard, states a <Messenger> editorial, was "efficient, 
pains-taking, self-effacing, loving, radiating the spirit of her 
Master. With infinite patience she responded to every call, no matter 
at what cost to herself, and to her all went, for she was sure to 
have the needed information or word of cheer.

In a few school districts one finds a link between school and 
job. In those vocational programs organized with Smith-Hughes money, 
there may be a close tie between the labor union and a local employer 
on the one hand and the vocational teacher on the other. In these cases 
a graduate may enter directly into an apprentice program, saving 
a year because of his vocational courses in grades 11 and 12. The apprentice 
program will involve further education on a part-time basis, usually 
at night, perhaps using some of the same equipment of the high 
school. These opportunities are to be found in certain cities in such 
crafts as auto mechanics, carpentry, drafting, electrical work, tool-and-die 
work, and sheet-metal work.   Formally organized vocational 
programs supported by federal funds allow high school students to 
gain experience in a field of work which is likely to lead to a full-time 
job on graduation. The "diversified occupations" program is a 
part-time trade-preparatory program conducted over two school years on 
a cooperative basis between the school and local industrial and business 
employers. The "distributive education" program operates in 
a similar way, with arrangements between the school and employers in 
merchandising 
fields. In both cases the student attends school half-time 
and works in a regular job the other half. He receives remuneration 
for his work. In a few places cooperative programs between schools 
and employers in clerical work have shown the same possibilities for allowing 
the student, while still in school, to develop skills which are 
immediately marketable upon graduation.   Adult education courses, 
work-study programs of various sorts- these are all evidence of 
a continuing interest of the schools in furthering educational opportunities 
for out-of-school youth. In general, however, it may be said 
that when a boy or a girl leaves the high school, the school authorities 
play little or no part in the decision of what happens next. If the 
student drops out of high school, the break with the school is even 
more complete. When there is employment opportunity for youth, this 
arrangement- or lack of arrangement- works out quite well. Indeed, 
in some periods of our history and in some neighborhoods the job opportunities 
have been so good that undoubtedly a great many boys who were 
potential members of the professions quit school at an early age and 
went to work. Statistically this has represented a loss to the nation, 
although one must admit that in an individual case the decision in 
retrospect may have been a wise one. I make no attempt to measure the 
enduring satisfaction and material well-being of a man who went to work 
on graduation from high school and was highly successful in the business 
which he entered. He may or may not be "better off" than his 
classmate who went on to a college and professional school. But in 
the next decades the nation needs to educate for the professions all 
the potential professional talent.   In a later chapter dealing 
with the suburban school, I shall discuss the importance of arranging 
a program for the academically talented and highly gifted youth in any 
high school where he is found. In the Negro neighborhoods and also 
to some extent in the mixed neighborhoods the problem may be one of 
identification and motivation. High motivation towards higher education 
must start early enough so that by the time the boy or girl reaches 
grade 9 he or she has at least developed those basic skills which are 
essential for academic work. Undoubtedly far more can be done in the 
lower grades in this regard in the Negro schools. However, the teacher 
can only go so far if the attitude of the community and the family 
is anti-intellectual. And the fact remains that there are today few 
shining examples of Negroes in positions of intellectual leadership. 
This is not due to any policy of discrimination on the part of the Northern 
universities. Quite the contrary, as I can testify from personal 
experience as a former university president. Rather we see here 
another vicious circle. The absence of successful Negroes in the world 
of scholarship and science has tended to tamp down enthusiasm among 
Negro youth for academic careers. I believe the situation is improving, 
but the success stories need to be heavily publicized. Here again 
we run into the roadblock that Negroes do not like to be designated 
as Negroes in the press. How can the vicious circle be broken? This 
is a problem to which leaders of opinion, both Negro and white, 
should devote far more attention. It is at least as important as the 
more dramatic attempts to break down barriers of inequality in the South. 

#VOCATIONAL EDUCATION#

I should like to underline four points 
I made in my first report with respect to vocational education. First 
and foremost, vocational courses should not replace courses which 
are essential parts of the required academic program for graduation. Second, 
vocational courses should be provided in grades 11 and 12 and 
not require more than half the student's time in those years; however, 
for slow learners and prospective dropouts these courses ought to 
begin earlier. Third, the significance of the vocational courses is 
that those enrolled are keenly interested in the work; they realize 
the relevance of what they are learning to their future careers, and this 
sense of purpose is carried over to the academic courses which they 
are studying at the same time. Fourth, the type of vocational training 
programs should be related to the employment opportunities in the 
general locality. This last point is important because if high school 
pupils are aware that few, if any, graduates who have chosen a certain 
vocational program have obtained a job as a consequence of the training, 
the whole idea of relevance disappears. Vocational training which 
holds no hope that the skill developed will be in fact a marketable 
skill becomes just another school "chore" for those whose interest 
in their studies has begun to falter. Those who, because of population 
mobility and the reputed desire of employers to train their own employees, 
would limit vocational education to general rather than specific 
skills ought to bear in mind the importance of motivation in any kind 
of school experience.   I have been using the word "vocational" 
as a layman would at first sight think it should be used. I intend 
to include under the term all the practical courses open to boys 
and girls. These courses develop skills other than those we think of 
when we use the adjective "academic". Practically all of these practical 
skills are of such a nature that a degree of mastery can be obtained 
in high school sufficient to enable the youth to get a job at 
once on the basis of the skill. They are in this sense skills marketable 
immediately on graduation from high school. To be sure, in tool-and-die 
work and in the building trades, the first job must be often 
on an apprentice basis, but two years of half-time vocational training 
enables the young man thus to anticipate one year of apprentice status. 
Similarly, a girl who graduates with a good working knowledge of stenography 
and the use of clerical machines and who is able to get a job 
at once may wish to improve her skill and knowledge by a year or two 
of further study in a community college or secretarial school. Of course, 
it can be argued that an ability to write English correctly and 
with some degree of elegance is a marketable skill. So, too, is the 
mathematical 
competence of a college graduate who has majored in mathematics. 
In a sense almost all high school and college courses could be 
considered as vocational to the extent that later in life the student 
in his vocation (which may be a profession) will be called upon to use 
some of the skills developed and the competence obtained. In spite 
of the shading of one type of course into another, I believe it is useful 
to talk about vocational courses as apart from academic courses. 
Perhaps a course in typewriting might be regarded as the exception which 
proves the rule. Today many college bound students try to take a 
course in personal typing, as they feel a certain degree of mastery of 
this skill is almost essential for one who proposes to do academic work 
in college and a professional school.   Most of our largest 
cities have one or more separate vocational or technical high schools. 
In this respect, public education in the large cities differs from education 
in the smaller cities and consolidated school districts. The 
neighborhood high schools are not, strictly speaking, comprehensive schools, 
because some of the boys and girls may be attending a vocational 
or technical high school instead of the local school. Indeed, one 
school superintendent in a large city objects to the use of the term 
comprehensive 
high school for the senior high schools in his city, because 
these schools do not offer strictly vocational programs. He prefers 
to designate such schools as "general" high schools. The suburban 
high school, it is worth noting, also is not a widely comprehensive 
high school because of the absence of vocational programs. The reason 
is that there is a lack of interest on the part of the community. Therefore 
employment and education in all the schools in a metropolitan 
area are related in different ways from those which are characteristic 
of the comprehensive high school described in my first report.

The separate vocational or technical high schools in the large cities 
must be reckoned as permanent institutions. By and large their programs 
are satisfactorily connected both to the employment situation and 
to the realities of the apprentice system. It is not often realized 
to what degree certain trades are in many communities closed areas of 
employment, except for a lucky few. One has to talk confidentially with 
some of the directors of vocational high schools to realize that a 
boy cannot just say, "I want to be a plumber", and then, by doing 
good work, find a job. It is far more difficult in many communities 
to obtain admission to an apprentice program which involves union approval 
than to get into the most selective medical school in the nation. 
Two stories will illustrate what I have in mind. One vocational instructor 
in a city vocational school, speaking of his course in a certain 
field, said he had no difficulty placing all students in jobs <outside> 
of the city. In the city, he said, the waiting list for those 
who want to join the union is so long that unless a boy has an inside 
track he can't get in. In a far distant part of the United States, 
I was talking to an instructor about a boy who in the twelfth grade 
was doing special work. "What does he have in mind to do when he 
graduates"? "Oh, he'll be a plumber", came the answer. "But 
isn't it almost impossible to get into the union"? I asked. 
"He'll have no difficulty", I was told. "He has very good 
connections".   In my view, there should be a school which offers 
significant vocational programs for boys within easy reach of every 
family in a city. Ideally these schools should be so located that 
one or more should be in the area where demand for practical courses is 
at the highest.   An excellent example of a successful location 
of a new vocational high school is the Dunbar Vocational High School 
in Chicago. Located in a bad slum area now undergoing redevelopment, 
this school and its program are especially tailored to the vocational 
aims of its students. Hardly a window has been broken since 
Dunbar 
first was opened (and vandalism in schools is a major problem in many 
slum areas). I discovered in the course of a visit there that almost 
all the pupils were Negroes. They were learning trades as diverse 
as shoe repairing, bricklaying, carpentry, cabinet making, auto mechanics, 
and airplane mechanics. The physical facilities at Dunbar are 
impressive, but more impressive is the attitude of the pupils.

The soybean seed is the most important leguminous food in the 
world. In the United States, where half of the world crop is grown, 
soybeans are processed for their edible oil. The residue from soybean 
processing goes mainly into animal feeds.   Soybeans are extensively 
processed into a remarkable number of food products in the Orient. 
American chemists, seeking to increase exports of soybeans, have 
adapted modern techniques and fermentation methods to improve their 
use in such traditional Japanese foods as tofu and miso and in tempeh 
of Indonesia. Soybean flour, grits, flakes, "milk", and curd can 
be bought in the United States.   Peanuts are the world's 
second most important legume. They are used mainly for their oil. We 
produce peanut oil, but to a much greater extent we eat the entire seed. 
Blanched peanuts, as prepared for making peanut butter or for eating 
as nuts, are roasted seeds whose seedcoats have been rubbed off.

Cereal grains, supplemented with soybeans or dry edible peas or beans, 
comprise about two-thirds or three-fourths of the diet in parts of 
Asia and Africa.   In western Europe and North America, where 
the level of economic development is higher, grains and other seed 
products furnish less than one-third of the food consumed. Rather, 
meat and potatoes, sugar, and dairy products are the main sources of 
carbohydrate, 
protein, oils, and fats. People depend less on seeds for 
foods in Australia, New Zealand, and Argentina, where extensive grazing 
lands support sheep or cattle, and the consumption of meat is high.

Feeds for livestock took about one-sixth of the world's 
cereal crop in 1957-1958. Most of the grain is fed to swine and dairy 
cows and lesser amounts to beef cattle and poultry. About 90 percent 
of the corn used in the United States is fed to animals. The rest 
is used for human food and industrial products. More than half of the 
sorghum and barley seeds we produce and most of the byproducts of the 
milling of cereals and the crushing of oilseeds are fed to livestock.

More than 200 million tons of seeds and seed products are fed 
to livestock annually in the United States.   The efficiency 
with which animals convert grains and forages to meat has risen steadily 
in the United States since the 1930's and has paralleled the increased 
feeding of the cake and meal that are a byproduct when seeds 
are processed for oil. ##

THE DEMAND for food is so great in 
the world that little arable land can be given over to growing the nonfood 
crops. Seeds grown for industrial uses hold a relatively minor 
position.   Chief among the seed crops grown primarily for industrial 
uses are the oil-bearing seeds- flax, castor, tung (nuts from 
the China wood-oil tree), perilla (from an Oriental mint), and oiticica 
(from a Brazilian tree).   Oils, or liquid fats, from the 
seeds of flax and tung have long been the principal constituents of paints 
and varnishes for protecting and beautifying the surfaces of wood 
and metal. These oils develop hard, smooth films when they dry and form 
resinlike substances.   The artist who paints in oil uses drying 
oils to carry the pigments and to protect his finished work for the 
ages. One of the finest of artists' oils comes from poppy seeds.

Seeds of soybean, cotton, corn, sesame, and rape yield semidrying 
oils. Some are used in paints along with drying oils. Palm oil 
protects the surfaces of steel sheets before they are plated with tin.

Castor oil, made from castorbeans, has gone out of style as a 
medicine. This nondrying oil, however, is now more in demand than ever 
before as a fine lubricant, as a constituent of fluids for hydraulically 
operated equipment, and as a source of chemicals to make plastics.

Almond oil, another nondrying oil, was once used extensively 
in perfumery to extract flower fragrances. It is still used in drugs 
and cosmetics, but it is rather scarce and sometimes is adulterated with 
oils from peach and plum seeds.   Liquid fats from all these 
oilseeds enter into the manufacture of soaps for industry and the household 
and of glycerin for such industrial uses as making explosives.

Sizable amounts of soybean, coconut, and palm kernel oil- seed 
oils that are produced primarily for food purposes- also are used 
to make soaps, detergents, and paint resins.   Solid fats from 
the seeds of the mahua tree, the shea tree, and the coconut palm are used 
to make candles in tropical countries.   Seeds are a main source 
of starch for industrial and food use in many parts of the world. 
Corn and wheat supply most of the starch in the United States, Canada, 
and Australia. In other countries where cereal grains are not 
among the principal crops of a region, starchy tubers or roots are processed 
for starch. Starch is used in the paper, textile, and food-processing 
industries and in a multitude of other manufacturing operations.

Gums were extracted from quince, psyllium (fleawort), flax, 
and locust (carob) seeds in ancient times. Today the yearly import 
into the United States of locust bean gum is more than 15 million pounds; 
of psyllium seed, more than 2.6 million. The discovery during 
the Second World War that guar gum was similar to imported locust 
gum increased its cultivation in western Asia and initiated it in the 
United States.   Water-soluble gums are used in foods and drugs 
and in the manufacture of pulp and paper as thickeners, stabilizers, 
or dispersing agents. Guar gum thickens salad dressings and stabilizes 
ice cream. Quince seed gum is the main ingredient in wave-setting 
lotions. Once regarded as an agricultural nuisance, psyllium was sold 
in the 1930's as a mechanical laxative under 117 different brands. 
Locust gum is added to pulp slurries to break up the lumps of fibers 
in making paper. ##

THE SEEDS of hard, fibrous, stony fruits, 
called nuts, provide highly concentrated foods, oils, and other materials 
of value. Most nuts consist of the richly packaged storage kernel 
and its thick, adherent, brown covering- the seedcoat.   The 
kernels of brazil nuts, cashews, coconuts, filberts, hazelnuts, hickory 
nuts, pecans, walnuts, and pine nuts are predominantly oily. Almonds 
and pistachio nuts are not so high in oil but are rich in protein. 
Chestnuts are starchy. All nut kernels are rich in protein. 
The world production of familiar seed nuts- almonds, brazil nuts, 
filberts, and the English walnuts- totals about 300 thousand tons annually.

Coconuts, the fruit of the coconut palm, have the largest 
of all known seeds and are grown in South Pacific islands as a 
crop for domestic and export markets. The oil palm of West Africa yields 
edible oil from both the flesh and the seed or kernel of its fruit. 
World production of copra, the oil-bearing flesh of the coconut, 
was a little more than 3 million tons in 1959. Exports from producing 
countries in terms of equivalent oil were a little more than 1 million 
tons, about half of which was palm kernels or oil from them and about 
half was palm oil.   Other nuts consumed in lesser quantity include 
the spicy nutmeg; the soap nut, which owes its sudsing power 
to natural saponins; the marking nut, used for ink and varnish; the 
aromatic sassafras nut of South America; and the sweet-smelling 
cumara nut, which is suited for perfumes.   A forest crop that has 
not been extensively cultivated is ivory nuts from the tagua palm. 
The so-called vegetable ivory is the hard endosperm of the egg-sized 
seed. It is used for making buttons and other small, hard objects of 
turnery. Seeds of the sago palm are used in Bermuda to make heads and 
faces of dolls sold to tourists. ##

THE COLOR AND SHAPE of 
seeds have long made them attractive for ornaments and decorations.

Since Biblical times, rosaries have been made from jobs-tears- 
the seeds of an Asiatic grass. Bead tree seeds are the necklaces 
of South Pacific islanders and the eyes of Buddha dolls in Cuba. 
Victorian ladies had a fad of stringing unusual seeds to wear as jewelry.

Handmade Christmas wreaths and trees often contain a variety 
of seeds collected during the year.   Tradition has assigned 
medicinal values to seeds because of their alkaloids, aromatic oils, 
and highly flavored components. Although science has given us more effective 
materials, preparations from anise, castorbean, colchicum, nux 
vomica, mustard, fennel, and stramonium are familiar to many for the 
relief of human ailments. Flaxseed poultices and mustard plasters still 
are used by some persons.   Peanut and sesame oils often are 
used as carriers or diluents for medicines administered by injection.

Still another 
group of seeds (sometimes tiny, dry, seed-bearing 
fruits) provide distinctive flavors and odors to foods, although the 
nutrients they supply are quite negligible. The common spices, flavorings, 
and condiments make up this group.   Each year millions of 
pounds of anise, caraway, mustard, celery, and coriander and the oils 
extracted from them are imported.   Single-seeded dry fruits used 
for flavoring include several of the carrot family, such as cumin, 
dill, fennel, and angelica. Less common seeds used in cooking and beverages 
include fenugreek (artificial maple flavor) and cardamom. White 
pepper is the ground seed of the common black pepper fruit.   Sesame 
seed, which comes from the tall pods of a plant grown in Egypt, 
Brazil, and Central America, has a toasted-nut flavor and can be 
used in almost any dish calling for almonds. It is a main flavoring for 
halvah, the candy of the Middle East. Sesame sticks, a snack dip, 
originated in the Southwest.   Beverages are made from seeds 
the world over.   Coffee is made from the roasted and ground seeds 
of the coffee tree. World production of coffee broke all previous 
records in 1959 and 1960 at more than 5 million tons. Per capita consumption 
remains around 16 pounds in the United States.   Cocoa, 
chocolate, and cocoa butter come from the ground seeds of the cacao 
tree. World production of about 1 million tons is divided primarily between 
Africa (63 percent) and South America (27 percent).   Several 
soft drinks contain extracts from kola nuts, the seed of the kola 
tree cultivated in the West Indies and South America.   Cereal 
grains have been used for centuries to prepare fermented beverages. 
The Japanese sake is wine fermented from rice grain. Arrack is 
distilled from fermented rice in India.   Beer, generally fermented 
from barley, is an old alcoholic beverage. Beer was brewed by the 
Babylonians and Egyptians more than 6 thousand years ago. Brewers 
today use corn, rice, and malted barley.   Distillers use corn, 
malt, wheat, grain sorghum, and rye in making beverage alcohol. ## 

SEED CROPS hold a prominent place in the agricultural economy 
of the United States.   The farm value of seeds produced in this 
country for all purposes, including the cereals, is nearly 10 billion 
dollars a year. Cereal grains, oilseeds, and dry beans and peas account 
for about 57 percent of the farm value of all crops raised.

The economic importance of seed crops actually is even greater, because 
additional returns are obtained from most of the corn, oats, barley, 
and sorghum- as well as the cake and meal from the processing 
of flaxseed, cottonseed, and soybeans- through conversion to poultry, 
meat, and dairy products.   Seeds furnish about 40 percent of 
the total nutrients consumed by all livestock. Hay and pasture are the 
other chief sources of livestock feed.   Seeds are the essential 
raw materials for milling grain, baking, crushing oilseed, refining 
edible oil, brewing, distilling, and mixing feed.   More than 11 
thousand business establishments in the United States were based on 
cereals and oilseeds in 1954. The value of products from these industries 
was 15.8 billion dollars, of which about one-third was created 
by manufacturing processes. Not included was the value of seed oil in 
paints and varnishes or the value of the coffee and chocolate industries 
that are based on imported seed or seed products.   Cereal grains 
furnish about one-fourth of the total food calories in the American 
diet and about one-third of the total nutrients consumed by all livestock 
and poultry.

To hold a herd of cattle on a new range till they felt at home 
was called "locatin'" 'em. To keep 'em scattered somewhat 
and yet herd 'em was called "loose herdin'". To hold 'em in 
a compact mass was "close herdin'". Cattle were inclined to remain 
in a territory with which they were acquainted. That became their 
"home range". Yet there were always some that moved farther and 
farther out, seekin' grass and water. These became "strays", 
the term bein' restricted to cattle, however, as hosses, under like 
circumstances, were spoken of as "stray hosses", not merely "strays".

Cattle would drift day and night in a blizzard till it 
was over. You couldn't stop 'em; you had to go with 'em or wait 
till the storm was over, and follow. Such marchin' in wholesale 
numbers was called a "drift", or "winter drift", and if the storm 
was prolonged it usually resulted in one of the tragedies of the 
range. The cowboy made a technical distinction in reference to the number 
of them animals. The single animal or a small bunch were referred 
to as "strays"; but when a large number were "bunched up" 
or "banded up", and marched away from their home range, as long as 
they stayed together the group was said to be a "drift". Drifts 
usually occurred in winter in an effort to escape the severe cold winds, 
but it could also occur in summer as the result of lack of water or 
grass because of a drought, or as an aftermath of a stampede. Drifts 
usually happened only with cattle, for hosses had 'nough sense to avoid 
'em, and to find shelter for 'emselves.   The wholesale 
death of cattle as a result of blizzards, and sometimes droughts, over 
a wide range of territory was called a "die-up". Followin' such 
an event there was usually a harvest of "fallen hides", and the 
ranchers needed skinnin' knives instead of brandin' irons. Cattle 
were said to be "potted" when "blizzard choked", that is, caught 
in a corner or a draw, or against a "drift fence" durin' a 
storm. Cattle which died from them winter storms were referred to as 
the "winter kill". When cattle in winter stopped and humped their 
backs up they were said to "bow up". This term was also used by 
the cowboy in the sense of a human showin' fight, as one cowhand was 
heard to say, "He arches his back like a mule in a hailstorm". Cattle 
drove to the northern ranges and held for two winters to mature 
'em into prime beef were said to be "double wintered".   Cattle 
brought into a range from a distance were called "immigrants". 
Them new to the country were referred to as "pilgrims". This 
word was first applied to the imported hot-blooded cattle, but later 
was more commonly used as reference to a human tenderfoot. Hereford cattle 
were often called "white faces", or "open-face cattle", 
and the old-time cowman gave the name of "hothouse stock" to them 
newly introduced cattle. Because Holstein cattle weren't a beef breed, 
they were rarely seen on a ranch, though one might be found now and 
then for the milk supply. The cowboy called this breed of cattle "magpies". 
A "cattaloe" was a hybrid offspring of buffalo and 
cattle. 
"Dry stock" denoted, regardless of age or sex, such bovines 
as were givin' no milk. A "wet herd" was a herd of cattle made 
up entirely of cows, while "wet stuff" referred to cows givin' 
milk. The cowboy's humorous name for a cow givin' milk was a "milk 
pitcher". Cows givin' no milk were knowed as "strippers". 
The terminology of the range, in speakin' of "dry stock" and 
"wet stock", was confusin' to the tenderfoot. The most common reference 
to "wet stock" was with the meanin' that such animals had 
been smuggled across the Rio Grande after bein' stolen from their 
rightful owners. The term soon became used and applied to all stolen 
animals. "Mixed herd" meant a herd of mixed sexes, while a "straight 
steer herd" was one composed entirely of steers, and when the 
cowman spoke of "mixed cattle", he meant cattle of various grades, 
ages, and sexes.   In the spring when penned cattle were turned 
out to grass, this was spoken of as "turn-out time", or "put 
to grass". "Shootin' 'em out" was gettin' cattle out of 
a corral onto the range. When a cow came out of a corral in a crouchin' 
run she was said to "come out a-stoopin'". To stir cattle 
up and get 'em heated and excited was to "mustard the cattle", and 
the act was called "ginnin' 'em 'round", or "chousin' 
'em". After a roundup the pushin' of stray cattle of outside brands 
toward their home range was called "throwin' over". 
A cow rose from the ground rear end first. By the time her hindquarters 
were in a standin' position, her knees were on the ground in a prayin' 
attitude. It was when she was in this position that the name 
"prayin' cow" was suggested to the cowboy. They were said to be 
"on their heads" when grazin'. "On the hoof" was a reference 
to live cattle and was also used in referrin' to cattle travelin' 
by trail under their own power as against goin' by rail. Shippin' 
cattle by train was called a "stock run". A general classification 
given grass-fed cattle was "grassers".   When a cowboy 
spoke of "dustin'" a cow, he meant that he throwed dust into her 
eyes. The cow, unlike a bull or steer, kept her eyes open and her 
mind on her business when chargin', and a cow "on the prod" or "on 
the peck" was feared by the cowhand more than any of his other 
charges.   The Injun's name for beef was "wohaw", and many 
of the old frontiersmen adopted it from their association with the Injun 
on the trails. The first cattle the Injuns saw under the white 
man's control were the ox teams of the early freighters. Listenin' 
with wonder at the strange words of the bullwhackers as they shouted 
"Whoa", "Haw", and "Gee", they thought them words the 
names of the animals, and began callin' cattle "wohaws". Rarely 
did a trail herd pass through the Injun country on its march north 
that it wasn't stopped to receive demand for "wohaw".   "Tailin'" 
was the throwin' of an animal by the tail in lieu of a 
rope. Any animal could when travelin' fast, be sent heels over head 
by the simple process of overtakin' the brute, seizin' its tail, 
and givin' the latter a pull to one side. This throwed the animal 
off balance, and over it'd crash onto its head and shoulders. Though 
the slightest yank was frequently capable of producin' results, many 
men assured success through a turn of the tail 'bout the saddle 
horn, supplemented sometimes, in the case of cattle, by a downward heave 
of the rider's leg upon the strainin' tail. Such tactics were 
resorted to frequently with the unmanageable longhorns, and a thorough 
"tailin'" usually knocked the breath out of a steer, and so dazed 
'im that he'd behave for the rest of the day. It required both 
a quick and swift hoss and a darin' rider. When cattle became more 
valuable, ranch owners frowned upon this practice and it was discontinued, 
at least when the boss was 'round. When the cowboy used the word 
"tailin's", he meant stragglers.   "Bull tailin'" 
was a game once pop'lar with the Mexican cowboys of Texas. From 
a pen of wild bulls one would be released, and with much yellin' a 
cowhand'd take after 'im. Seizin' the bull by the tail, he rushed 
his hoss forward and a little to one side, throwin' the bull off 
balance, and "bustin'" 'im with terrific force. Rammin' one 
horn of a downed steer into the ground to hold 'im down was called 
"peggin'".   Colors of cattle came in for their special names. 
An animal covered with splotches or spots of different colors was 
called a "brindle" or "brockle". A "lineback" was an animal 
with a stripe of different color from the rest of its body runnin' 
down its back, while a "lobo stripe" was the white, yeller, or 
brown stripe runnin' down the back, from neck to tail, a characteristic 
of many Spanish cattle. A "mealynose" was a cow or steer of 
the longhorn type, with lines and dots of a color lighter'n the rest 
of its body 'round the eyes, face, and nose. Such an animal was 
said to be "mealynosed". "Sabinas" was a Spanish word used to 
describe cattle of red and white peppered and splotched colorin'. 
The northern cowboy called all the red Mexican cattle which went up 
the trail "Sonora reds", while they called all cattle drove up from 
Mexico "yaks", because they came from the Yaqui Injun country, 
or gave 'em the name of "Mexican buckskins". Near the southern 
border, cattle of the early longhorn breed whose coloration was black 
with a lineback, with white speckles frequently appearin' on the 
sides and belly, were called "zorrillas". This word was from the 
Spanish, meanin' "polecat". "Yeller bellies" were cattle 
of Mexican breed splotched on flank and belly with yellerish color. An 
animal with distinct coloration, or other marks easily distinguished 
and remembered by the owner and his riders, was sometimes used as a 
"marker". Such an animal has frequently been the downfall of the 
rustler.   Countin' each grazin' bunch of cattle where it was 
found on the range and driftin' it back so that it didn't mix with 
the uncounted cattle was called a "range count". The countin' 
of cattle in a pasture without throwin' 'em together for the purpose 
was called a "pasture count". The counters rode through the 
pasture countin' each bunch of grazin' cattle, and drifted it back 
so that it didn't get mixed with the uncounted cattle ahead. This 
method of countin' was usually done at the request, and in the presence, 
of a representative of the bank that held the papers against the 
herd. Them notes and mortgages were spoken of as "cattle paper".

A "book count" was the sellin' of cattle by the books, 
commonly resorted to in the early days, sometimes much to the profit of 
the seller. This led to the famous sayin' in the Northwest of the 
"books won't freeze". This became a common byword durin' the 
boom days when Eastern and foreign capital were so eager to buy cattle 
interests. The origin of this sayin' was credited to a saloonkeeper 
by the name of Luke Murrin. His saloon was a meetin' place for 
influential Wyoming cattlemen, and one year durin' a severe blizzard, 
when his herd-owner customers were wearin' long faces, he said, 
"Cheer up boys, whatever happens, the books won't freeze". In 
this carefree sentence he summed up the essence of the prevailin' 
custom of buyin' by book count, and created a sayin' which has survived 
through the years. "Range delivery" meant that the buyer, after 
examinin' the seller's ranch records and considerin' his rep'tation 
for truthfulness, paid for what the seller claimed to own, 
then rode out and tried to find it.   When a cowhand said that a 
man had "good cow sense", he meant to pay 'im a high compliment. 
No matter by what name cattle were called, there was no denyin' that 
they not only saved Texas from financial ruin, but went far toward 
redeemin' from a wilderness vast territories of the Northwest. #@ 
21 @ SWINGIN' A WIDE LOOP#

THE first use of the word 
"rustler" was as a synonym for "hustler", becomin' an established 
term for any person who was active, pushin', and bustlin' in 
any enterprise. Again it was used as the title for the hoss wrangler, 
and when the order was given to go out and "rustle the hosses", 
it meant for 'im to go out and herd 'em in. Eventually herdin' 
the hosses was spoken of as "hoss rustlin'", and the wrangler was 
called the "hoss rustler". Later, the word became almost exclusively 
applied to a cow thief, startin' from the days of the maverick 
when cowhands were paid by their employers to "get out and rustle 
a few mavericks". 
IT WAS JOHN who found the lion tracks. He found them near the carcass 
of a zebra that had been killed the night before, and he circled 
once, nose to the ground, hair shooting up along his back, as it did 
when he was after lion or bear, and then he lifted his head and bayed, 
and the pack joined in, all heads high, and Jones knew it was a hot 
trail.   He stifled the Comanche yell and let John lead him 
straight toward the nearby black volcanic mountain. This mountain was 
known as The Black Reef and it rose almost perpendicularly for about 
two hundred feet, honeycombed with caves, top covered with dense scrub 
and creepers and tall grass. On the south it ended sharply as though 
the lava had been cut off there suddenly.   Kearton and Ulyate 
had started the day together while Jones followed the dogs, and Means 
and Loveless had taken another route, and now, with the discovery 
of the fresh trail still unknown to him, Ulyate reined in, in the 
shadow of the Reef and pointed. Kearton focussed his field glasses.

"That's the Colonel", he said, "But I can't see the 
dogs".   As they watched, Jones rode straight for the Reef. 
Then they picked up the smaller black specks on the plain in front 
of him. The dogs were working a trail- lion? hyena? The pack 
had made a bend to the north, swinging back toward the Reef, and Kearton 
and Ulyate could hear them faintly.   Kearton got off and 
tore up some dry grass that grew in cracks between the rocks and piled 
it in a heap and wanted to make the smoke signal that would bring Loveless 
and Means and the rest of the party.   "Not yet", cautioned 
Ulyate.   Jones came toward them fast, now, along the southern 
toe of the Reef, and the dogs could be heard plainly, Old John 
with his Grand Canyon voice outstanding above the others. There 
was Sounder, too, also a veteran of the North Rim, and Rastus and 
the Rake from a pack of English fox-hounds, and a collie from a London 
pound, and Simba, a terrier **h. A motley pack, chosen for effectiveness, 
not beauty. Jones was galloping close behind them leaning 
down, cheering them on.   "Light it"! Ulyate said, and Kearton 
touched a match to the pile of grass, blew on it and flame licked 
out. He threw green stuff on it, and a thin blue column of smoke rose.

"That will fetch the gang and tell the Colonel where we 
are".   Two quick shots sounded. Then there was a chorus of 
wild barking and baying. Then the heavy roar of a lion.   Kearton 
and Ulyate looked at each other and began to gallop toward the sound. 
It came from the top of the Reef not half a mile away. At the 
base of the rocky hillside, they left their horses and climbed on foot. 
The route was choked with rugged lava-rocks, creepers and bushes, so 
thickly overgrown that when Kearton lost sight of Ulyate and called, 
Ulyate answered from ten feet away. Nice country to meet a lion in 
face to face. Ulyate and Kearton climbed on toward the sound of the 
barking of the dogs and the sporadic roaring of the lion, till they 
came, out of breath, to the crest, and peering through the branches of 
a bush, this is what Ulyate saw: Jones who had apparently (and actually 
had) ridden up the nearly impassable hillside, sitting calmly on 
his horse within forty feet of a full-grown young lioness, who was crouched 
on a flat rock and seemed just about to charge him, while the 
dogs whirled around her.   Ulyate drew back with a start, and put 
finger to lips, almost afraid to move or whisper lest it set her 
off, "The dogs have got her bayed **h. She's just the other side 
of that bush"! And when they had drawn back a step he added: 
"Jones is sitting on his horse right in front of her. Why she doesn't 
charge him, I don't know. And he hasn't even got a knife on 
him. He couldn't get away from her in this kind of ground **h. Careful, 
don't disturb her". ##

Jones had been about a hundred 
and fifty feet from her when he first broke through to the top of the 
Reef. She was standing on a flat rock three feet above ground and when 
she saw him she rose to full height and roared, opening her mouth wide, 
lashing her tail, and stamping at the rock with both forefeet in 
irritation, as much as to say: "How dare you disturb me in my sacred 
precinct"?   Intuition told him, however, that she was tired 
and winded from the run up the Reef and would not charge, yet. He 
moved forward to within thirty-five feet of her, being careful, because 
he knew the female is less predictable than the male. (In the graveyard 
at Nairobi he had been shown the graves of thirty-four big game 
hunters killed hunting the animals he was attempting to lasso. 
Of the thirty-four, seventeen had been killed by lions, and eleven out 
of the seventeen by lionesses.) She snarled terribly but intuition 
told 
him, again, that she was bluffing, and he could see that half her 
attention was distracted by the dogs. He threw the lasso. It was falling 
over her head when a branch of a bush caught it and it fell in front 
of her on the rock. Even then, if she took one step forward he could 
catch her. But John nipped her rear end- one lion's rear end 
was as good as another to John, Africa, Arizona no matter- and she 
changed ends and took a swipe at John, but he ducked back.   Jones 
then recoiled his rope and threw again, this time hitting her on 
the back but failing to encircle her. She whirled and faced him, roaring 
terribly, and Ulyate, watching through the leaves, could not understand 
why she did not charge and obliterate him, because he wouldn't 
have much of a chance of getting away, in that thick growth, but she 
seemed just a trace uncertain; while Jones, on the other hand, appeared 
perfectly confident and Ulyate decided perhaps that was the answer.

From the lioness' point of view, this strange creature 
on the back of another creature, lashing out with its long thin paw, 
very likely appeared as something she could not at first cope with. But 
now she sank lower to the rock. Her roar changed to a growl. Her 
tail 
no longer lashed. Although she appeared more subdued and defeated, 
Jones knew she was growing more dangerous. She was rested and could 
mount a charge. Just the tip of her tail was moving as she crouched, 
and she was treading lightly up and down with her hind feet. 
At this moment, Loveless and Means arrived, crashing through the undergrowth 
with their horses, and distracted her, and she ran off a short 
distance and jumped into a crevice between two rocks. The dogs followed 
her and she killed three and badly wounded Old John.   "We've 
got to get her out of there"! Jones yelled, "or she'll 
kill 'em all. Bring me the firecrackers".   For such an 
emergency he had included Fourth-of-July cannon crackers as part of 
their equipment. Lighting one he pitched it into the crevice, and the 
lioness left off mauling the dogs and departed.   "Ain't she 
a beauty, though"? called out Means as she ran.   "Don't 
you go a step nearer her than I do", Jones warned, "and if 
you do, go at a run so you'll have momentum"!   For two hours 
they drove her from one strong point to another along the side of 
the Reef, trying to maneuver her onto the plain where they could get 
a good throw. But she clung to the rocks and brush, and the day wore 
away. It was hot. The dogs were tired. The men were tired too. It 
was the story of the rhinoceros fight all over again. And the sun was 
beginning to go down. If dark came they would lose her.   "I'll 
get a pole", Jones said finally, "and I'll poke a noose 
over her 
head"!   At this moment she was crouched in a cave-like 
aperture halfway down the Reef. Ulyate made no comment but his face 
showed what he thought of poking ropes over lions' heads with poles, 
and of course these were the lions of fifty years ago, not the gentler 
ones of today, and this one was angry, with good reason. Loveless, 
too, objected. "It won't work, Colonel".   "Just the 
same we'll try it".   But without waiting for them to try it, 
she scattered the dogs and shot down the Reef and out across the plain.

John led the chase after her and the other dogs strung out 
behind, many of them trailing blood. John himself was bruised and 
clawed from head to tail, but he was in this fight to the finish, running 
almost as strongly now as in the morning.   She took refuge 
on a tongue of land extending into a gully, crouched at the base of a 
thorn tree, and waited for them to come up. She had chosen the spot well. 
With the gully on three sides, she could be approached only along 
the tongue of land. "Careful, now", Jones warned.   Means 
tried her first. Very slowly he maneuvered his rawboned bay gelding, 
edging closer, watching for a chance to throw, but ready to spin and 
run, rope whining about his head, horse edging tensely under him, but 
the gelding was obedient and responded and was not paralyzed by the close 
proximity of the lion. They tell you horses go crazy at the sight 
or smell of a bear or a lion, but these didn't.   Means edged 
closer. She snarled warningly. Means spit and edged on. Again she 
snarled, and again he edged. The pony was sidewise to her. With a whirling 
jump, it could get into gear **h. However nothing on four legs 
was supposed to be faster than a lion over a short distance, unless 
it was a cheetah.   She charged. Means spun and spurred. For thirty 
yards she gained rapidly. She was closing and within one more bound 
would have been able to reach the rear end of the bay, but- and 
here Jones and Loveless and Ulyate were holding breath for all they 
were worth- she never quite caught up that last bound. Means held 
steady one jump ahead of her. Then gradually he began to pull away. 
A Western cowpony had outrun an African lion, from a standing start. 
Photos showed later that she'd been about six feet from Means **h. 
Of course the factor of head start made all the difference. How much 
head start? No one knew exactly. That was the whole question. 
Enough, was the answer.   The lioness quickly changed front, when 
she saw she couldn't catch Means, and made for Jones. As she had 
done with Means, she gained rapidly at first, but then Baldy began 
to draw away. Somewhere in the few scant yards of head start was the 
determining point.   When Jones too drew away, she returned to 
a thorn bush in the neck of land running into the gully, crouched low 
and waited as before. This new position, however, gave the ropers a 
better chance. There was room to make a quick dash past the bush and 
throw as you went. So: Means edged around on the north side of her, 
Jones moved in from the south. Tossing his rope and shouting he attracted 
her attention. He succeeded almost too well, because once she 
rose as if to charge, and he half wheeled his horse- he was within 
fifty feet- but she sank back.   From behind her Means shot 
forward at a run. Kearton began shouting, "Wait, wait- the camera's 
jammed"! But Means kept on. He raced by within twenty feet 
of her, roped her around the neck, but a lioness' neck is short and 
thick and with a quick twist she slipped the noose off. 
The missionary obligation to proclaim the gospel to all the world was 
once left to zealous individuals and voluntary societies. But the time 
came when a church that had no part in the missionary movement was 
looked upon as deficient in its essential life. The Christian education 
of children, too, was once hardly more than a sideshow, but the day 
came when a congregation that did not assume full oversight of a church 
school was thought of as failing in its duty.   The most serious 
weakness of the ecumenical movement today is that it is generally 
regarded as the responsibility of a few national leaders in each denomination 
and a few interdenominational executives. Most pastors and laymen, 
even though they believe it to be important, assume that the ecumenical 
movement lies outside the province of their parishes. They may 
even dismiss it from their minds as something that concerns only the 
"ecclesiastical Rover Boys", as someone has dubbed them, who like 
to go to national and international assemblies, and have expense accounts 
that permit them to do so.   As long as this point of view 
prevails, the ecumenical movement will be lame and halt. The next 
stage ahead is that of making it thoroughly at home in the local community. 
Progress will take place far less through what is done in any 
"summit conference" of the National Council or the World Council, 
or even in offices of the denominational boards, than through what 
happens in the communities where Christian people live together as neighbors. 
The front line of advance is where witnessing and worshiping 
congregations of different traditions exist side by side. Until they 
see the ecumenical movement in terms of the difference it makes in their 
own attitudes, programs, and relationships, it will have an inevitable 
aspect of unreality. As things now stand, there is a grievous disparity 
between the unity in Christ which we profess in ecumenical meetings 
and the complacent separateness of most congregations on any Main 
Street in the nation. 

#THE ECUMENICAL CONGREGATION#

The crux 
of ecumenical advance is an even more personalized matter than the relation 
between congregations in the same community. The decisive question 
is what happens <within> each congregation and, finally, in the 
minds and hearts of the individual members. It is here that the local 
and ecumenical must meet. It is here that the ecumenical must become 
local and the local become ecumenical.   It has become almost 
trite to say that the ecumenical movement must be "carried down to the 
grass roots". This way of describing the matter is unfortunate. 
It implies two misconceptions. One is that whatever is ecumenical has 
to do with some over-all organization at "the top" and needs only 
to be understood at the so-called "lower levels". The truth, however, 
is that the ecumenical church <is> just the local church in its 
own true character as an integral unit of the whole People of God 
throughout the world. The other misconception is that our ecumenical 
problems will be solved if only the knowledge of the church in its world-wide 
extension and its interdenominational connections, now comprehended 
by many national leaders, can be communicated to all congregations. 
However needed this may be, the fundamental problem is not information 
but active commitment to the total mission of the church of Christ 
in the world.   The basic unit in the church, of whatever denominational 
polity, is always the congregation. It is hardly possible 
to emphasize this too much. Most people do not realize that the congregation, 
as a gathered fellowship meeting regularly face to face, personally 
sharing in a common experience and expressing that experience 
in daily relationships with one another, is unique. The idea that it 
is a feature of all religions is entirely mistaken. The Jewish synagogue 
affords a parallel to the Christian congregation, but Hinduism, 
Buddhism, Islam, Confucianism, Taoism, Shintoism, although they 
have sacred scriptures, priests, spiritual disciplines, and places of 
prayer, do not have a congregation as a local household of faith and 
love. Their characteristic experience is that of the individual at an 
altar or a shrine rather than that of a continuing social group with 
a distinctive kind of fellowship.   How far the fellowship in most 
local churches falls below what the New Testament means by <koinonia!> 
What is now called Christian fellowship is often little more 
than the social chumminess of having a gracious time with the kind 
of people one likes. The <koinonia> of Acts and of the Epistles 
means sharing in a common relation to Christ. It is an experience of 
a new depth of community derived from an awareness of the corporate 
indwelling of Christ in His people. As Dietrich Bonho^ffer puts 
it, "Our community with one another consists solely in what Christ 
has done to both of us". This may mean having fellowship in the church 
with people with whom, on the level of merely human agreeableness, 
we might prefer not to have any association at all. There is a vast 
difference between the community of reconciliation which the New Testament 
describes and the community of congeniality found in the average 
church building.   Whenever a congregation really sees itself 
as a unit in the universal Church, in vital relation with the whole 
Body of Christ and participating in His mission to the world, a necessary 
foundation-stone of the ecumenical movement has been laid. The 
antithesis of the ecumenical and the local then no longer exists. The 
local and the ecumenical are one.   Of course, the perspective 
of those who are dealing directly with the world-wide problems of the 
People of God will always be different from the perspective of those 
who are dealing with the nearby problems of particular persons in a 
particular place. Each viewpoint is valid if it is organically related 
to the other. Neither is adequate if it stands alone. Our difficulty 
arises when either viewpoint shuts out the other. And this is what 
all too often happens. 

#DIVERGENT PERSPECTIVES#

A little parable 
illustrative of this truth is afforded by an incident related by Professor 
Bela Vasady at the end of the Second World War. With great 
difficulty he made his way from his native Hungary to Geneva to renew 
his contacts as a member of the Provisional Committee for the World 
Council of Churches. When he had the mishap of breaking his spectacles, 
his ecumenical colleagues insisted on providing him with new 
ones. They were bifocals. He often spoke of them as his "ecumenical" 
glasses and used them as a symbol of the kind of vision that is 
required in the church. It is, he said, a bifocal vision, which can 
see both the near-at-hand and the distant and keep a Christian in right 
relation to both.   As things stand now, the local and the ecumenical 
tend to compete with each other. On the one hand, there are 
ecumenists who are so stirred by the crises of the church in its encounter 
with the world at large that they have no eyes for what the church 
is doing in their own town. They do not escape the pitfall into which 
Charles Dickens pictured Mrs& Jellyby as falling. Her concern 
for the natives of Borrioboola-Gha was so intense that she quite 
forgot and neglected her son Peepy! Likewise, the ecumenist may become 
so absorbed in the conflict of the church with the totalitarian 
state in East Germany, the precarious situation of the church in revolutionary 
China, and the anguish of the church over apartheid in South 
Africa that he loses close contact with the parish church in its 
unspectacular but indispensable ministry of worship, pastoral service 
and counseling, and Christian nurture for a face-to-face group of individuals.

On the other hand, many a pastor is so absorbed in ministering 
to the intimate, personal needs of individuals in his congregation 
that he does little or nothing to lead them into a sense of social 
responsibility and world mission. As a result, they go on thinking 
of the church, with introverted and self-centered satisfaction, only 
in connection with the way in which it serves them and their families. 
It would hardly be an exaggeration to say that ninety per cent of 
the energy of most churches- whether in terms of finance or spiritual 
concern- is poured into the private and domestic interests of the 
members. The parish lives for itself rather than for the community or 
the world.   The gap between the ecumenical perspective and the 
parish perspective appears most starkly in a church in any of our comfortable 
suburbs. It is eminently successful according to all conventional 
standards. It is growing in numbers. Its people are agreeable 
friends. It has a beautiful edifice. Its preaching and its music give 
refreshment of spirit to men and women living under heavy strain. It 
provides pastoral care for the sick and troubled. It helps children 
grow up with at least a nodding acquaintance with the Bible. It draws 
young people into the circle of those who continue the life of the 
church from generation to generation. And it is easy for the ecumenical 
enthusiast to lose sight of how basic all this is.   But what 
is this church doing to help its members understand their roles as Christians 
in the world? All too often its conception of parish ministry 
and pastoral care includes no responsibility for them in their relation 
to issues of the most desperate urgency for the life of mankind. 
It is not stirring them to confront the racial tensions of today with 
the mind of Christ. It is not helping them face the moral crisis 
involved in the use of nuclear energy. It is not making them sensitive 
to the sub-Christian level of much of our economic and industrial 
life. It is raising no disturbing question as to what Christian stewardship 
means for the relationship of the richest nation in the world 
to economically underdeveloped peoples. It is not developing an awareness 
of the new kind of missionary strategy that is called for as young 
churches emerge in Asia and Africa.   To put it bluntly, many 
a local church is giving its members only what they consciously want. 
It is not disturbing them by thoughts of their Christian responsibility 
in relation to the world. We shall not make a decisive advance 
in the ecumenical movement until such a church begins to see itself not 
merely as a haven of comfort and peace but as a base of Christian witness 
and mission to the world.   There is a humorous but revealing 
story about a rancher who owned a large slice of Texas and who wanted 
to have on it everything that was necessary for a completely pleasant 
community. He built a school and a library, then a recreation center 
and an inn. Desiring to fill the only remaining lack, he selected 
the best site on the ranch for a chapel and spared no expense in erecting 
it. A visitor to the beautiful little building inquired, "Do 
you belong to this church, Mr& Rancher"? "Why, no, ma'am", 
he replied, "this church belongs to me"! The story reflects 
the way too many people feel. As long as the congregation regards 
the church as "our" church, or the minister thinks of it as "my" 
church, just so long the ecumenical movement will make no significant 
advance. There must first be a deeper sense that the church belongs 
not to us but to Christ, and that it is His purpose, not our own interests 
and preferences, that determines what it is to be and do. 

#LOCAL 
EMBODIMENT OF THE WHOLE#

A local church which conceives its function 
to be entirely that of ministering to the conscious desires and 
concerns of its members tends to look on everything ecumenical as an 
extra, not as a normal aspect of its own life as a church. It would 
doubtless be greatly surprised to be told that in failing to be ecumenical 
it is really failing to be the Church of Christ.   Yet the 
truth, according to the New Testament, is that every local church 
has its existence only by being the embodiment of the whole church in 
that particular place. 
Yet a crowd came out to see some fresh kids from the city try to match 
the boys from the neighboring farms; and buggies and wagons and chugging 
Fords kept gathering all morning, until the edges of the field 
were packed thick and small boys kept scampering out on the playing field 
to make fun of the visitors- whose pitcher was a formidable looking 
young man with the only baseball cap.   This was a bitterly 
fought game, carrying almost as much grudge as a fist fight, with no 
friendliness exhibited between the teams except the formal politeness 
that accompanied the setting forth of ground rules and agreements on balls 
that went into the crowd. Every pitch in the game brought forth 
a howl from the enraptured audience and every fly ball the visitors 
dropped (and because their right fielder was still a little fuzzy from 
drink, they dropped many) called forth yelps of derision.   At 
one point in the game when the skinny old man in suspenders who was acting 
as umpire got in the way of a thrown ball and took it painfully in 
the kidneys, he lay there unattended while players and spectators wrangled 
over whether the ball was "dead" or the base runners were 
free to score.   This was typical of such games, which were earnestly 
played to win and practically never wound up in an expression of 
good fellowship. When the visitors, after losing this game, rode along 
the village streets toward home, the youngsters who could keep abreast 
of them for a moment or two screamed triumphantly, "You bunch of 
hay-shakers! G'ahn back home! You hay-shakers"!   Baseball 
was surely the national game in those days, even though professional 
baseball may have been merely a business. Radio broadcasts had 
not begun and most devotees of baseball attended the games near home, 
in the town park or a pasture, with perhaps two or three trips to the 
city each season to see the Cubs or the Pirates or the Indians or 
the Red Sox.   Young men in school could look forward to playing 
ball for money in a dozen different places, even if they failed to 
make the major leagues. Nearly any lad with a modicum of skill might 
find a payday awaiting him in the Three ~I League, or the Pony 
League, or the Coastal Plains League, or the fast Eastern League, 
if not indeed in one of the hundreds of city leagues that abounded everywhere. 
Even a city of thirty thousand might have six baseball teams, 
sponsored by grocers and hardware merchants or department stores, 
that played two or three times a week throughout the summer, usually in 
the cool of the evening, before an earnest and partisan audience who 
did not begrudge a quarter each, or even more, to be dropped into a hat 
when the game was half over.   Babe Ruth, of course, was everyone's 
hero, and everyone knew him, even though relatively few ever 
saw him play ball. His face was always in the newspapers, sometimes 
in cartoons that seemed nearly as large as life. As the twenties grew 
older, and as radio broadcasts of baseball games began to involve more 
and more people daily in the doings of the professionals, the great 
hitters (always led by Babe Ruth) overshadowed the game so that pitchers 
were nearly of no account. Boys no longer bothered learning to 
bunt and even school kids scorned to "choke up" on a bat as Willie 
Keeler and the famous hitters of another day had done.   Other 
hitters bloomed with more or less vigor in the news and a few even dared 
to dream of matching Ruth, who was still called Jidge by all his 
friends, or Leo or Two-Head by those who dared to taunt him (Leo 
was the name of the ball player he liked the least) and who called most 
of the world "Kid". Lou Gehrig was given the nickname Buster, 
and he ran Ruth a close race in home runs. But the nickname never 
stuck and Gehrig was no match for Ruth in "color"- which is sometimes 
a polite word for delinquent behavior on and off the field. Ruth 
was a delinquent boy still, but he was in every way a great ball 
player who was out to win the game and occasionally risked a cracked bone 
to do it.   A few professional baseball players cultivated eccentricities, 
with the encouragement of the press, so that they might 
see their names in big black print, along with Daddy Browning's, 
Al Capone's, Earl Sande's, and the Prince of Wales'. One 
who, for a time, succeeded 
best and was still the sorriest of all was Charles 
Arthur Shires, who called himself, in the newspapers, Art the 
Great, or The Great Shires. It was his brag that he could beat 
everybody at anything, but especially at fighting, and he once took on 
the manager of his club and worked him over thoroughly with his fists. 
he was given to public carousing and to acting the clown on the diamond; 
and a policeman asserted he had found a pair of brass knuckles 
in Art's pocket once when he had occasion to collar the Great First 
Baseman for some forgotten reason. (This made a sportswriter named 
Pegler wonder in print if Art had worn this armament when he defeated 
his manager.) The sorry fact about this young man, who was barely 
of age when he broke into major-league baseball, was that he really 
was a better ball player than he was given credit for being- never so 
good as he claimed, and always an irritant to his associates, but a 
good steady performer when he could fight down the temptation to orate 
on his skills or cut up in public.   In his minor way Charles 
Arthur Shires was perhaps more typical of his era than Ruth was, for 
he was but one of many young men who laid waste their talents in these 
Scott Fitzgerald days for the sake of earning space in the newspapers. 
There were others who climbed flagpoles and refused to come down; 
or who ingested strange objects, like live fish; or who undertook 
to set records for remaining erect on a dance floor, with or without 
a partner; or who essayed to down full bottles of illicit gin without 
pausing for breath. One young man, exhilarated to the point of insanity 
by liquor and the excitement of the moment, performed a perfect 
swan dive out of the stands at the Yale Bowl during the Yale-Army 
football game, landed squarely on his head on the concrete ramp below, 
and died at once.   But the twenties were not all insanity and 
a striving after recognition. The business of baseball began to prosper 
along with other entertainments, and performers- thanks partly to 
George Herman Ruth's spectacular efforts each season to run his 
salary higher and higher- prospered too. While fifty years before, 
Albert Goodwill Spalding, secretary of the Chicago Ball Club of 
the National League, could write earnestly to the manager of the Buffalo 
club and request a guarantee of one hundred dollars for a baseball 
game in August, in this Golden Era a game at the Yankee Stadium 
might bring in nearly a hundred thousand dollars at the gate. And 
while less than ten years earlier the wayward Black Sox- all of them 
top performers in their positions- had toiled for stingy Charles 
Comiskey at salaries ranging from twenty-five hundred dollars to forty-five 
hundred dollars a year, stars now were asking ten thousand dollars, 
twenty thousand dollars, yes, even fifty thousand dollars a season.

The greatest team of this period was unquestionably the New 
York Yankees, bought by brewery millions and made into a ball club 
by men named Ed Barrow and Miller Huggins. Boston fans sometimes 
liked to wring some wry satisfaction out of the fact that most of the 
great 1923-27 crew were graduates of the Red Sox- sold to millionaires 
Huston and Ruppert by a man who could not deny them their most 
trifling desire. Ruth himself, still owning his farm in Massachusetts 
and an interest in the Massachusetts cigar business that printed 
his round boyish face on the wrappers, had led the parade down from Fenway 
Park, followed by pitchers Carl Mays, Leslie "Joe" Bush, 
Waite Hoyt, Herb Pennock, and Sam Jones, catcher Wally Schang, 
third baseman Joe Dugan (who completed the "playboy trio" of 
Ruth, Dugan, and Hoyt), and shortstop Everett Scott. By 1926, when 
the mighty Yanks were at their mightiest, only a few of these were 
left but they still shone brightest, even beside able and agile rookies 
like Tony Lazzeri (who managed never to have one of his epileptic 
fits on the field), Mark Koenig, Lou Gehrig, George Pipgras, and 
gray-thatched Earl Combs. The deeds of this team, through two seasons 
and in the two World's Series that followed, have been written 
and talked about until hardly a word is left to be said. But there 
is one small episode that a few New York fans who happened to sit in 
the cheap seats for one World's Series game in 1926 like best to 
recall. Babe Ruth, as he always did in the Stadium, played right field 
to avoid having the sun in his eyes, and Tommy Thevenow, a rather 
mediocre hitter who played shortstop for the St& Louis Cardinals, 
knocked a ball with all his might into the sharp angle formed by the 
permanent stands and the wooden bleachers, where Ruth could not reach 
it. The ball lay there, shining white on the grass in view of nearly 
every fan in the park while Ruth, red-necked with frustration, charged 
about the small patch of ground screaming, "Where's the -ing 
ball"? But, as he snarled unhappily when the inning was over, 
"not a sonofabitch in the place would tell me", so little Tommy 
ran all the way home.   The ordinary man and woman, however, saw 
little of the great professional games of those Golden Days, or of 
any other sporting event for that matter. Promoters always hastened 
to place their choice tickets in the hands of the wealthy speculators, 
and only the man who knew the man who knew the fellow who had an in 
with the guy at the box office ever came up with a good seat for a contest 
of any importance. Radio broadcasts, however- now that even plain 
people could afford "loud speakers" on their sets- held old 
fans to the major-league races and attracted new ones, chiefly women, 
who through what the philosopher called the ineluctable modality of audition, 
became first inured, then attracted, then addicted to the long 
afternoon recitals of the doings in some distant baseball park.

In some cities games were broadcast throughout the week and then on 
weekends the announcer was silenced, and fans must needs drive to the 
city from all the broadcast area to discover how their heroes were faring. 
This had a pleasant effect upon the Sunday gate receipts as well 
as upon the intake of the rail and bus companies, some of which began 
to offer special excursion rates, including seats at the park, just 
as the trolley and ferry companies had when baseball was new. 
While women had always attended ball games in small numbers (it was the 
part of a "dead game sport" in the early years of the twentieth 
century to be taken out to the ball park and to root, root, root for 
the home team), they had often sat in patient martyrdom, unable even to 
read the scoreboard, which sometimes seemed to indicate that one 
team 
led another by a score of three hundred and eighty to one hundred and 
fifty-one. The questions women asked at baseball games were standard 
grist for amateur comedy, as were the doings of women automobile drivers; 
for every grown man (except a few who were always suspected of 
being shy on virility) knew at least the fundamentals of baseball, just 
as every male American in this era liked to imagine (or pretend) that 
he could fight with his fists. And women were not expected to know 
that the pitcher was trying <not> to let the batter hit the ball.

Radio, however, so increased the interest of women in the game 
that it was hardly necessary even to have "Ladies' Days" any longer 
to enable men to get to the ball park without interference at home. 
Women actually began to appear unaccompanied in the stands, where 
they still occasionally ran the risk of coming home with a tobacco-juice 
stain on a clean skirt or a new curse word tingling their ears.

The radio broadcasts themselves were often so patiently informative, 
despite the baseball jargon, that girls and women could begin to 
store up in their minds the same sort of random and meaningless statistics 
that small boys had long learned better than they ever did their 
lessons in school. 
This conclusion is dependent on the assumption that traditional sex mores 
will continue to sanction both premarital chastity as the "ideal", 
and the double standard holding females primarily responsible for 
preserving the ideal.   Our discussion of this involves using 
Erik Erikson's schema of "identity <vs&> identity diffusion" 
as a conceptual tool in superimposing a few common denominators onto 
the diverse personality and family configurations of the unwed mothers 
from whose case histories we quoted earlier. Our discussion does not 
utilize all the identity crises postulated by Erikson, but is intended 
to demonstrate the utility of his theoretical schema for studying 
unwed mothers. We hope thereby to emphasize that, from a psychological 
standpoint, the effectual prevention of illegitimacy is a continuous 
long-term process involving the socialization of the female from infancy 
through adolescence.   Hypothesizing a series of developmental 
stages that begin in the individual's infancy and end in his old 
age, Erikson has indicated that the adolescent is faced with a series 
of identity crises. The successful and positive resolution of these 
crises during adolescence involves an epigenetic principle- during 
adolescence, the individual's positive resolutions in each area of identity 
crisis depend, to a considerable degree, on his already having 
resolved preliminary and preparatory identity crises during his infancy, 
childhood, and early adolescence. Within Erikson's schema, the 
adolescent's delinquent behavior- in this case, her unwed motherhood- 
reflects her "identity diffusion", or her inability to resolve 
these various identity crises positively.   <The adolescent 
experiences identity crises in terms of time perspective vs& time diffusion>. 
Time perspective- the ability to plan for the future and 
to postpone gratifying immediate wants in order to achieve long-range 
objectives- is more easily developed if, from infancy on, the individual 
has been able to rely on and trust people and the world in which 
she lives. Erikson has noted that, unless this trust developed early, 
the time ambivalence experienced, in varying degree and temporarily, 
by all adolescents (as a result of their remembering the more immediate 
gratification of wants during childhood, while not yet having fully 
accepted the long-range planning required by adulthood) may develop 
into a more permanent sense of time diffusion. Experience of this time 
diffusion ranges from a sense of utter apathy to a feeling of desperate 
urgency to act immediately.   These polar extremes in time 
diffusion were indicated in some of the comments by unwed mothers reported 
in earlier chapters. Some of these mothers, apparently feeling a 
desperate urgency, made, on the spur of the moment, commitments, in love 
and sex, that would have life-long consequences. Others displayed 
utter apathy and indifference to any decision about the past or the future. 
For many of these unwed mothers, the data on their family life 
and early childhood experiences revealed several indications and sources 
of their 
basic mistrust of their parents in particular and of the world in 
general.   However, as Erickson has noted, the individual's 
failure to develop preliminary identities during infancy and childhood 
need not be irreversibly deterministic with respect to a given area of 
identity diffusion in his (or her) adolescence. And, as shown in Chapter 
/6,, some ~SNP females originally developed such trust only 
during their adolescence, through the aid of, and their identification 
with, alter-parents. In the specific case of time diffusion, we 
must emphasize the significance of the earlier development of mistrust 
<when it is combined with> the inevitable time crisis experienced by 
most (if not all) adolescents in our society, and with the failure of 
the adolescent period to provide opportunities for developing trust.

<The adolescent experiences two closely related crises: self-certainty 
vs& an identity consciousness; and role-experimentation 
vs& negative identity>. A sense of self-certainty and the freedom 
to experiment with different roles, or confidence in one's own unique 
behavior as an alternative to peer-group conformity, is more easily 
developed during adolescence if, during early childhood, the individual 
was permitted to exercise initiative and encouraged to develop some 
autonomy.   However, if the child has been constantly surrounded, 
during nursery and early school age, by peer groups; inculcated 
with the primacy of group acceptance and group standards; and allowed 
little initiative in early play and work patterns- then in adolescence 
her normal degree of vanity, sensitivity, and preoccupation with 
whether others find her appearance and behavior acceptable, will be compounded. 
Her ostensible indifference to and rebellion against suggestions 
and criticisms by anyone except peer friends during adolescence 
are the manifestations, in her adolescence, of her having been indoctrinated 
in childhood to feel shame, if not guilt, for failing to behave 
in a manner acceptable to, and judged by, the performance of her nursery- 
and elementary-school peer friends. To be different is to invite 
shame and doubt; and it is better to be shamed and criticized by one's 
parents, who already consider one different and difficult to understand, 
than by one's peers, who are also experiencing a similar groping 
for and denial of adult status.   The attitudes of some unwed 
mothers quoted in Chapter /2,, revealed both considerable preoccupation 
with being accepted by others and a marked absence of self-certainty. 
Many appeared to regard their sexual behavior as a justifiable 
means of gaining acceptance from and identification with others; but 
very few seemed aware that such acceptance and identification need 
to be supplemented with more enduring and stable identification of and 
with one's self.   <Another identity crisis confronting the 
adolescent involves anticipation of achievement vs& work-paralysis>. 
The adolescent's capacity to anticipate achievement and to exercise 
the self-discipline necessary to complete tasks successfully depends 
on the degree to which he or she developed autonomy, initiative, and 
self-discipline during childhood. The developmental process involves 
the individual's progressively experiencing a sense of dignity and achievement 
resulting from having completed tasks, having kept commitments, 
and having created something (however small or simple- even a doll 
dress of one's own design rather than in the design "it ought 
to be"). These childhood experiences are sources of the self-certainty 
that the adolescent needs, for experimenting with many roles, and 
for the <freedom to fail sometimes> in the process of exploring and 
discovering her skills and abilities.   If she has not had such 
experiences, the female's normal adolescent degree of indecision will 
be compounded. She may well be incapacitated by it when she is confronted 
with present and future alternatives- e&g&, whether to prepare 
primarily for a career or for the role of a homemaker; whether 
to stay financially dependent on her parents or help support herself 
while attending school; whether to pursue a college education or a 
job after high school; and whether to attend this or that college and 
to follow this or that course of study. Erikson has noted that, as 
this indecision mounts, it may result in a "paralysis of workmanship". 
This paralysis may be expressed in the female's starting- and 
never completing- many jobs, tasks, and courses of study; and in 
the fact that she bases her decisions about work, college, carreer, and 
studies on what others are doing, rather than on her own sense of identity 
with given skills, abilities, likes, and dislikes. The absence, 
during her childhood and early adolescence, of experiences in developing 
the self-discipline to complete tasks within her ability- experiences 
that would have been subsequent sources of anticipation of achievement- 
and her lack of childhood opportunities to practice autonomy 
and initiative in play and expression, both tend in her adolescence 
to deprive her of the freedoms to role-experiment and to fail occasionally 
in experimenting.   The comments made by some unwed mothers 
(quoted in Chapter /2,) reflect this paralysis of workmanship. They 
attended school and selected courses primarily on the basis of decisions 
others made; they accepted a job primarily because it was available, 
convenient, and paid reasonably. These things both express and, 
at the same time, continue contributing to, their identity diffusion 
in an area that could have become a source of developing dignity and 
self-certainty. As their identity diffusion increased, they became more 
susceptible to sporadic diversions in love and sexual affairs. These 
affairs temporarily relieved the monotony of school or work activities 
containing no anticipation of achievement and joy of craftsmanship, 
no sense of dignity derived from a job well done.   Childhood 
experiences in learning work and self-discipline habits within a context 
of developing autonomy and initiative have considerable significance 
for the prevention of illegitimacy. The excerpts from case histories 
presented above confirm this significance, though through different 
facets of experience. For example, some unwed mothers had had no work 
experiences, household chores, and responsibilities during childhood 
and early adolescence; they subsequently occupied their leisure hours 
in searching for something exciting and diverting. Sex was both. On 
the other hand, some unwed mothers had had so much work and responsibility 
imposed on them at an early age, and had thus had so little freedom 
or opportunity to develop autonomy and initiative, that their work 
and responsibilities became dull and unrewarding burdens- to be escaped 
and rebelled against through fun and experimentation with forbidden 
sexual behavior.   <The adolescent also faces the identity 
crisis that Erikson has termed ideological polarization vs& diffusion 
of ideals>. In discussing the ways this crisis is germane to consderations 
for the prevention of illegitimacy, we shall again superimpose 
Erikson's concept on our data.   Adolescents have a much-discussed 
tendency to polarize ideas and values, to perceive things as 
"either-or", black or white- nuances of meaning are relatively 
unimportant. This tendency is, perhaps, most clearly revealed in the 
literature on religious conversions and experiences of adolescents. Erikson 
has postulated that such ideological polarization temporarily 
resolves their search for something stable and definite in the rapidly 
changing and fluctuating no-man's-land between childhood and adulthood. 
It provides identification- with an idea, a value, a cause that 
cuts through, or even transcends, the multiple and ambivalent identities 
of their passage from child to adult, and permits their forceful 
and overt expression of emotion.   The positive development, during 
adolescence, of this capacity to think and to feel strongly and with 
increasing independence, and to identify overtly either with or against 
given ideas, values, and practices, depends to a considerable degree 
on both previous and present opportunities for developing autonomy, 
initiative, and self-certainty. Most adolescents have some ideological 
diffusion at various developmental stages, as they experience a proliferation 
of ideas and values. The diffusion is most pronounced and 
most likely to become fixed, however, in those who have had no or very 
minimal opportunities to develop the autonomy and initiative that could 
have been directed into constructive expression and so served as sources 
of developing self-certainty.   A pronounced ideological 
diffusion- i&e&, inability to <identify independently> with given 
ideas and value systems- is reflected in many ways. For example, 
it is evinced by the adolescent (or adult) whose beliefs and actions 
represent primarily his rebellion and reaction again the ideas and behavior 
patterns of others, rather than his inner conviction and choice. 
It is mirrored by the individual Willie Lohmans, whose ideas and 
behavior patterns are so dependent and relativistic that they always coincide 
with those of the individual or group present and most important 
at the moment. In another sense, it is represented in the arguments 
of the "true believers" who seek to disprove the validity of all 
other beliefs and ideas in order to retain confidence in theirs.

The case histories provide some interesting illustrations of ideological 
diffusion, embodied in the unwed mother's inability to <identify 
independently> with a given value system or behavior pattern, and 
her subsequent disinclination to assume any individual responsibility 
for her sexual behavior. For example, the unwed mothers expressed 
their frustration with males who did not indicate more explicitly "what 
it is they really want from a girl so one can act accordingly". 
They were disappointed by the physical and emotional hurt of premarital 
sexual intercourse. They condemned the movie script writers for implying 
that sex was enjoyable and exhilarating. They criticized parents 
for never having emphasized traditional concepts of right and wrong; 
and they censured parents who "never disciplined and were too permissive" 
or who "never explained how easy it was to get pregnant".

In the adult world, there are a number of rather general and 
diffuse sources of ideological diffusion that further compound the 
adolescent's search for meaning during this particular identity crisis. 
For example, some contemporary writing tends to fuse the "good 
guys" and the "bad guys", to portray the weak people as heroes and 
weakness as a virtue, and to explain (or even justify) asocial behavior 
by attributing it to deterministic psychological, familial, and social 
experiences. 
In the final accounting, these would have augmented the bill for both 
sides. An estimate of one million dollars is probably not excessive.

Yet the huge amount of money consumed by the Selden litigation, 
which many regarded as wasteful, indirectly contributed to constructive 
changes in legal procedure. The duration and other circumstances 
of the Selden case made it a flagrant example of the gross abuses of 
patent infringement actions. The suit, as we have seen, came before 
the courts when patent attorneys, inventors, and laymen were making mounting 
demands for reforms in the American patent system. Chief among 
the defects they singled out were the complicated and wearisome procedures 
in equity.   In a long and angry footnote to his opinion, 
Judge Hough had lent the weight of judicial condemnation to such criticism. 
"It is a duty", said Hough, "not to let pass this opportunity 
of protesting against the methods of taking and printing testimony 
in Equity, current in this circuit (and probably others), excused 
if not justified by the rules of the Supreme Court, especially to 
be found in patent causes, and flagrantly exemplified in this litigation. 
As long as the bar prefers to adduce evidence by written deposition, 
rather than <viva voce> before an authoritative judicial officer, 
I fear that the antiquated rules will remain unchanged, and expensive 
prolixity remain the best known characteristic of Equity". Observing 
that "reforms sometimes begin with the contemplation of horrible 
examples", Hough catalogued the many abuses encouraged by existing 
procedures. He cited the elephantine dimensions of the Selden case 
record; the duplication of testimony and exhibits; the numerous 
squabbles over minor matters; the "objections stated at outrageous 
length"; and the frequent and rancorous verbal bouts, "uncalled 
for and 
unjustifiable, from the retort discourteous to the lie direct".

The fundamental difficulty of which the Selden case was 
"a striking (though not singular) example", concluded Hough, "will 
remain as long as testimony is taken without any authoritative judicial 
officer present, and responsible for the maintenance of discipline, 
and the reception or exclusion of testimony".   Not least 
among the members of the patent bar who echoed this powerful indictment 
were those who had participated in the Selden suit. William A& 
Redding asserted that if the case had been heard in open court under 
rules of evidence, the testimony would have been completed in sixty 
days instead of five years. Inventors joined lawyers in the clamor for 
reform, inevitably centering upon the Selden litigation as a "horrible 
example". Its costive deliberations were likened to those of 
the British courts of chancery mercilessly caricatured by Dickens in 
<Bleak House>.   Parker, who agreed with much of this criticism, 
did not conceal his dissatisfaction with procedural defects. But 
he felt that the Selden case was being unfairly pilloried. In a detailed 
letter published in the <Scientific American> in 1912, he 
remarked that "loose statements" about the case showed scant understanding 
of the facts. The suit, although commonly designated as a single 
action, actually embraced five cases. Parker insisted that the size 
of the record would have been drastically reduced but for an unavoidable 
duplication of testimony.   In a private communication written 
in 1911, Parker had been more to the point. Noting the complaints 
of inventors and members of the patent bar, he admitted that some 
of the strictures "were fairly well founded", but he added that under 
existing rules the courts could not consolidate testimony in a group 
of suits involving separate infringements of the same patent. The 
vast industrial interests caught up in the Selden suit, as well as the 
complex character of the automotive art, encouraged both sides to exploit 
"every possible chance" for or against the patent, said Parker. 
"This very seldom happens in this class or in other cases, and 
of course all of these matters led to a volume and an expense of the 
record beyond what ordinarily would occur".   Parker listed the 
remedies he deemed essential for reducing the cost and mass of testimony. 
The most important of these found him in agreement with Hough's 
plea for reform. Parker called for abolition of the indiscriminate 
or uncontrolled right of taking depositions before officers of the court 
who had no authority to limit testimony. The taking of depositions, 
he suggested, should be placed under a special court examiner empowered 
to compel responsive and relevant answers and to exclude immaterial 
testimony. "I am satisfied that in the Selden case had this power 
existed and this course [been] pursued, it would have shortened 
the depositions of some of the experts nearly one-half and of some of 
the other witnesses thereto more than that".   In the end Hough's 
acidulous protest, which Parker called the "now somewhat famous 
note on this 'Selden' case", did not go unheeded. In 1912 
the United States Supreme Court adopted a new set of rules of equity 
which became effective on February 1, 1913. The revised procedure 
was acclaimed as a long-overdue reform. Under the new rules, testimony 
is taken orally in open court in all cases except those of an extraordinary 
character. Other expeditious methods are designed to prevent 
prolixity, limit delays, and reduce the expense of infringement suits. 
One of the A&L&A&M& lawyers observed that if the Selden 
case had been tried under this simplified procedure, the testimony 
which filled more than a score of volumes, "at a minimum cost of $1 
a page for publication alone, could have been contained in one volume". 
While patent suits are still among the most complex and expensive 
forms of litigation, these rules have saved litigants uncounted sums 
of money. There is little doubt that they were promulgated by the Supreme 
Court as a direct result of the Selden patent suit. 

#3#

Even 
before it was formally dissolved in 1912, the A&L&A&M& 
was succeeded by the Automobile Board of Trade, the direct lineal 
ancestor of the present-day Automobile Manufacturers Association. 
The trade bodies which came in the wake of the A&L&A&M& 
were more representative, for they never adopted a policy of exclusion. 
Nevertheless, it is from the Selden organization that the industry 
inherited its institutional machinery for furthering the broader interests 
of the trade. One of the chief features of this community of interest 
is the automotive patents cross-licensing agreement, a milestone 
in the development of American industrial cooperation. Its origin 
lies in the Selden patent controversy and its aftermath.   From 
the earliest days of the motor car industry, before the A&L&A&M& 
was established, patent infringement loomed as a serious and 
vexing problem. Many patent contests were waged over automobile components 
and accessories, among them tires, detachable rims, ball bearings, 
license brackets, and electric horns. The fluidity and momentum of 
the young industry abetted a general disregard of patent claims. As 
early as 1900 a Wall Street combination acquired detail patents with 
the intention of exacting heavy tribute from automobile manufacturers. 
This scheme failed, and the following decade brought a deluge of infringement 
suits among individual manufacturers that reached its crest 
in 1912.   In this tangle of conflicting claims, the patent-sharing 
scheme adopted by the A&L&A&M& at its founding proved 
to be the best device for avoiding or mitigating the burdens of incessant 
litigation. The interchange of shop licenses for a nominal royalty 
eliminated infringement suits among the members of the A&L&A&M& 
patent pool (although it did not protect them against outside 
actions) and kept open channels for the cross-fertilization of automotive 
technology. One of the conditions of the pool was a prohibition 
upon the withholding of patent rights among A&L&A&M& members. 
Within its limits, this arrangement had the actual or potential characteristics 
of a cross-licensing agreement. Its positive features 
outweighed the fact that the pool was an adjunct of a wouldbe monopoly. 
Since the A&L&A&M& holdings embraced only about twenty-five 
per cent of motor vehicle patents, the denial of rights to independent 
companies did not retard technical progress in unlicensed sectors 
of the industry. The highly important Dyer patents on the sliding 
gear transmission were held by the A&L&A&M& pool. But Henry 
Ford used the planetary transmission in his Model ~T and earlier 
cars and, in 1905, as a precautionary measure, took out a license 
from the man who claimed to be its inventor.   For those affiliated 
with it, the A&L&A&M& pool was a haven from the infringement 
actions involving detail patents that beset the industry with mounting 
intensity after 1900. By 1910 the courts were crowded with cases, 
many of them brought by freebooters who trafficked in disputed inventions. 
It was commonplace for auto makers, parts-suppliers, and dealers 
to find warning notices and threats of infringement suits in their 
daily mail. "Purely from the business man's standpoint and without 
regard to the lawyer's view", commented a trade journal, "the 
matter of patents in the automobile and accessory trade is developing 
some phases and results that challenge thought as to how far patents 
are to become weapons of warfare in business, instead of simple beneficient 
protection devices for encouraging inventive creation".

Occasionally new enterprise was discouraged by the almost certain 
prospect of legal complications. One manufacturer who held an allegedly 
basic patent said: "I would readily put over $50,000 into the 
manufacture of the device, but it is so easy to make that we would enter 
immediately into a prolonged ordeal of patent litigation which would 
eat up all our profits". The prevailing view in the industry was 
summed up in 1912 by a group of auto makers who told a Senate committee: 
"The exceedingly unsatisfactory and uselessly expensive conditions, 
including delays surrounding legal disputes, particularly in patent 
litigation, are items of industrial burden which must be written 
large in figures of many millions of dollars of industrial waste".

By that time it was commonly agreed that patent warfare was sapping 
constructive achievement and blocking the free exchange of technical 
information. At this point Charles C& Hanch, long an advocate 
of patent peace in the industry, became chairman of the patents committee 
of the National Automobile Chamber of Commerce, successor 
to the Automobile Board of Trade. Hanch was treasurer of the Nordyke 
+ Marmon Company, an Indianapolis firm which had manufactured flour-milling 
machinery before producing the Marmon car in 1904. He had 
first-hand knowledge of the patent wars which had driven about ninety 
per cent of the milling equipment makers out of business in the mid-1890's. 
Anxious to avoid a similar debacle in the motor car industry, 
Hanch went to Detroit in 1909 to enlist the support of leading 
A&L&A&M& members for an industry-wide patent-sharing plan. 
The breach created by the Selden patent doomed his proposal, but Hanch 
did not abandon his scheme.   After the demise of the A&L&A&M&, 
the time was propitious for establishing such a pool. 
Most manufacturers were now disposed to heed a proposal for the formal 
interchange of patents. "It is a much easier course to agree to 
let one another alone so far as ordinary patents are concerned", said 
a trade authority, "than to continue the costly effort of straightening 
the tangle in the courts or seeking to reform the patent system, 
which appears to be getting into deeper confusion every day".

With the other members of the patents committee- Wilfred C& Leland, 
Howard E& Coffin, Windsor T& White, and W& H& 
Vandervoort- Hanch drafted a cross-licensing agreement whose essential 
feature of royalty-free licensing was his own contribution. The 
plan was supported by Frederick P& Fish, counsel for the National 
Automobile Chamber of Commerce. It will be recalled that in his 
summation for the A&L&A&M& before Judge Hough, Fish had 
condemned patent litigation as the curse of the American industrial 
community. He was well aware that some inventors and their allies used 
their patents solely for nuisance value. "My personal view is that 
not one patented invention in ten is worth making", he later told 
a Congressional committee. The eloquent persuasions of Fish guaranteed 
the adoption of the plan by the members of the automotive trade association.

Drawn up in 1914, the cross-licensing agreement became 
effective in 1915. It remained in force for ten years and has been 
renewed at five-year intervals since 1925. 
A little farther along the road you come to the {Church of Santa 
Sabina,} called the "Pearl of the Aventine". Continue another 
hundred yards to the {Piazza of the Knights of Malta.} On the 
wall of this square there are delightful bas-reliefs of musical instruments. 
The massive {gate} of the Maltese villa affords one of 
the most extraordinary views in Rome. If you look through the keyhole, 
you will see an artistically landscaped garden with the white dome 
of St& Peter's framed in a long avenue of cropped laurel trees.

Retrace your steps a few yards on the Via di Santa Sabina and 
turn right on the {Via di S& Alessio,} a street lined with 
stately homes. Oleanders, cypress, and palms in the spacious gardens 
add much color and beauty to this attractive residential section. Turn 
left a block or so before the street ends, and then turn right down 
the Via di Santa Prisca to the {Viale Aventino.} Here you can 
pick up a taxi or public transport to return to the center of the city. 

#THE RENAISSANCE CITY#

_TO THE PIAZZA NAVONA AND PANTHEON_ 
These two walks take you through the {heart of Rome.} You will 
walk some of the narrow, old streets, hemmed in by massive <palazzi>. 
You will visit a few churches that are exceptional yet often by-passed, 
a magnificent square, the main shopping district, the Spanish 
Steps, and the lovely Pincian Gardens. By seeing such varied places, 
both interesting and beautiful, you will become aware of the many 
different civilizations Rome has lived through, and in particular, get 
a feel of Renaissance Rome. You will realize why Rome is indeed 
the Eternal City.   Start on the Via d& Teatro di Marcello 
at the foot of the {Capitoline Hill.} The majestic circular 
tiers of stone of the {Theatre of Marcellus} give you some idea 
of the huge edifice that the Emperor Augustus erected in 13 B&C&. 
Twenty-two thousand spectators used to crowd it in Roman days. 
Andrea Palladio, an Italian architect of the sixteenth century, modeled 
his designs on its Doric and Ionic columns.   Wander past 
the three superb {Columns of Apollo} by the arches of the theatre. 
The remains of the {Portico of Octavia} are now in front of 
you. Climb the steps from the theatre to the Via della Tribuna di 
Campitelli for an even better view of the Columns of Apollo. 
Turn to the right along a narrow street to the tiny Piazza Campitelli, 
then proceed along the Via dei Funari to the Piazza Mattei. Here 
is one of the loveliest fountains in Rome, the {Fontana delle 
Tartarughe} or {"Fountain of the Tortoises".} It's typical 
of Rome that in the midst of this rather poor area you should find 
such an artistic work in the center of a little square. Stand here 
for a few moments and look at this gem of a fountain with its four youths, 
each holding a tortoise and each with a foot resting on the head 
of a dolphin. The figures have been executed so skillfully that one 
senses a great feeling of life and movement.   Opposite is the 
{Palazzo Mattei,} one of Rome's oldest palaces, now the headquarters 
of the {Italo-American Association.} Go inside for a closer 
look at a Renaissance palace. In the first courtyard there are 
some fine bas-reliefs and friezes, and in the second a series of delightful 
terraced roof gardens above an ivy-covered wall. The {Palazzo 
Caetani,} still inhabited by the Caetani family, adjoins the Palazzo 
Mattei.   Keep straight ahead on the Via Falegnami, cross 
the wide Via Arenula, and you will come to the {Piazza B& 
Cairoli,} where you should look in at the {Church of San Carlo 
ai Catinari} to see the frescoes on the ceiling. Follow the colorful 
and busy Via d& Giubbonari for a hundred yards or so. Now turn 
left at the Via dell' Arco del Monte to the Piazza dei Pellegrini. 
Just a few yards to the right on the Via Capo di Ferro will 
bring you to the {Palazzo Spada,} built in 1540 and now occupied 
by the {Council of State.} Paintings by Titian, Caravaggio, 
and Rubens are on display (open 9:30-4:00).   Before you enter 
the palazzo, note Francesco Borromini's facade. The great architect 
also designed the fine interior staircase and colonnade which 
connects the two courts. The large statue on the first floor is believed 
to be the {statue of Pompey} at the base of which Julius Caesar 
was stabbed to death (if so, the statue once stood in the senate 
house). (This is shown in the afternoon and on Sunday morning.)

By tipping the porter, you can see in the courtyard Borromini's 
unusual and fascinating trick in perspective. When you stand before 
the barrel-vaulted {colonnade} you have the impression that the statue 
at 
the end is at a considerable distance, yet it is actually only a few 
feet away. The sense of perspective has been created by designing the 
length of the columns so that those at the far end of the colonnade 
are much shorter than those in front. The gardens of the <palazzo,> 
shaded by a huge magnolia tree, are most attractive. The courtyard 
is magnificently decorated.   From the Palazzo Spada you continue 
another block along the Via Capo di Ferro and Vicolo de Venti 
to the imposing {Palazzo Farnese,} begun in 1514 and considered 
by many to be the finest palace of all. Michelangelo was the most distinguished 
of several noted architects who helped design it. Today it 
is occupied by the {French Embassy.} Its lovely seventeenth-century 
ceiling frescoes, as well as the huge guards room with a tremendously 
high and beautifully carved wooden ceiling, can be seen Sundays 
(11:00-12:00 noon). Ask to see the modern tapestries of Paris 
and Rome designed by Lurcat.   Directly in front of the palace 
along the Via d& Baullari you will come to the {Campo di Fiori,} 
the famous site of executions during the turbulent days of Renaissance 
Rome. Today, by contrast it is a lively and colorful fruit, 
vegetable, and flower market. Continue on the Via d& Baullari to 
the Corso Vittorio Emanuele, then turn right for a couple of hundred 
yards to the {Church of Sant' Andrea della Valle.} As you 
approach the church on the Via d& Baullari you are passing within 
yards of the remains of the {Roman Theatre of Pompey,} near which 
is believed to have been the place where Julius Caesar was assassinated. 
The dome of the church is, outside of {St& Peter's,} 
one of the largest in Rome. Opera lovers will be interested to learn 
that this church was the scene for the first act of <Tosca>.

At this point you cross the wide Corso Vittorio Emanuele /2,, 
walk along the Corso del Rinascimento a couple of hundred yards, 
then turn left on the Via dei Canestrani to enter the splendid {Piazza 
Navona,} one of the truly glorious sights in Rome.   Your 
first impression of this elongated square with its three elegant fountains, 
its two churches that almost face each other, and its russet-colored 
buildings, is a sense of restful spaciousness- particularly 
welcome after wandering around the narrow and dark streets that you have 
followed since starting this walk.   The site of the oblong 
piazza is {Domitian's ancient stadium,} which was probably used 
for horse and chariot races. For centuries it was the location of historic 
festivals and open-air sports events. From the seventeenth to 
the nineteenth century it was a popular practice to flood the piazza in 
the summer, and the aristocrats would then ride around the inundated 
square in their carriages.   Giovanni Bernini's {"Fountain 
of the Rivers",} in the center of the piazza, is built around 
a Roman obelisk from the Circus of Maxentius which rests on grottoes 
and rocks, with four huge figures, one at each corner, denoting four 
great rivers from different continents- the Danube, the Ganges, the 
Nile, and the Plate. The eyes of the figure of the Nile are covered, 
perhaps either to symbolize the mystery of her source or to obscure 
from her sight the baroque facade of the {Church of Sant' Agnese 
in Agone}, the work of Bernini's rival, Borromini. 
In the Piazza Navona there are many delightful cafes where you can 
sit, have a drink or lunch, and watch the fountains in the square. The 
scene before you is indeed theatrical and often appears in movies about 
Rome. Perhaps a street musician will pass to add that extra touch.

Take the Via di S& Agnese in Agone, next to the church 
and opposite the center of the square, then turn right after about 
two hundred yards to reach the beautiful {Church of Santa Maria della 
Pace.} Inside you will find the lovely Sibyls painted by Raphael 
and a chapel designed by Michelangelo. The church's cloisters 
are among Donato Bramante's most beautiful creations.   Now 
return to the Piazza Navona and leave it on the opposite side by the 
Corsia Agonale; in a moment cross the Corso del Rinascimento. 
In front of you is the {Palazzo Madama,} once belonging to the 
Medici and now the {Italian Senate.} Walk by the side of the 
palazzo and after two blocks along the Via Giustiniani you will come 
to the {Piazza della Rotonda.} You are now facing the {Pantheon,} 
the largest and best-preserved building still standing from the 
days of ancient Rome.   This circular edifice, constructed by 
Agrippa in B&C& 27, was rebuilt in its present shape by the Emperor 
Hadrian. It was dedicated as a church in the seventh century. 
As you pause in the piazza by the Egyptian obelisk brought from the 
Temple of Isis, you will admire the Pantheon's impressive Corinthian 
columns.   The Pantheon's interior, still in its original 
form, is truly majestic and an architectural triumph. Its {rotunda} 
forms a perfect circle whose diameter is equal to the height from 
the floor to the ceiling. The only means of interior light is the 
twenty-nine-foot-wide aperture in the stupendous {dome.} Standing 
before the tomb of Raphael, the great genius of the Renaissance, when 
shafts of sunlight are penetrating this great Roman temple, you are 
once again reminded of the varied civilizations so characteristic of 
Rome.   As you leave the Pantheon, take the narrow street to 
the right, the Via del Seminario, a block to {Sant' Ignazio,} 
one of the most splendid baroque churches in the city. (Along the way 
there, about one hundred yards on your right, you pass a simple restaurant, 
{La Sacrestia,} where you can have the best pizza in Rome.) 
The curve of faded terra-cotta-colored houses in front of the church 
seems like a stage set. This is one of the most charming little 
squares in this part of Rome. One block along the Via de Burro (in 
front of the church) will bring you to the {Stock Exchange} in 
the old {Temple of Neptune.} A few yards farther, on the Via 
dei Bergamaschi, is the {Piazza Colonna.} The great column from 
which the square takes its name was erected by the Emperor Marcus 
Aurelius.   You are now at the {Corso,} though narrow, one 
of Rome's busiest streets. Horse races took place here in the Middle 
Ages.   If you have taken this stroll in the morning, and you have 
the time and inclination, walk to the right along the crowded Corso 
for half a dozen blocks to visit the fine private collection of paintings- 
mainly of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries- in the 
{Palazzo Doria} (open Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday, 10:00-1:00). 
Here is your opportunity to see the inside of a palazzo where 
the family still lives.   Otherwise, cross over the Corso and 
walk a block or so to the left. You will come to {Alemagna,} a 
delightful, though moderately expensive restaurant, which is particularly 
noted for its exceptional selection of ice creams and patisseries. 
Either here, or in one of the modest restaurants nearby, is just the 
place to end this first walk through the heart of Rome. _TO THE SPANISH 
STEPS_ The second walk through the heart of Rome should be taken 
after lunch, so that you will reach the {Pincian Hill} when 
the soft light of the late afternoon is at its best. 
Rare, indeed, is the Harlem citizen, from the most circumspect church 
member to the most shiftless adolescent, who does not have a long tale 
to tell of police incompetence, injustice, or brutality. I myself 
have witnessed and endured it more than once. The businessmen and racketeers 
also have a story. And so do the prostitutes. (And this is not, 
perhaps, the place to discuss Harlem's very complex attitude toward 
black policemen, nor the reasons, according to Harlem, that they 
are nearly all downtown.)   It is hard, on the other hand, to blame 
the policeman, blank, good-natured, thoughtless, and insuperably 
innocent, for being such a perfect representative of the people he serves. 
He, too, believes in good intentions and is astounded and offended 
when they are not taken for the deed. He has never, himself, done 
anything for which to be hated- which of us has?- and yet he is 
facing, daily and nightly, people who would gladly see him dead, and he 
knows it. There is no way for him not to know it: there are few things 
under heaven more unnerving than the silent, accumulating contempt 
and hatred of a people. He moves through Harlem, therefore, like 
an occupying soldier in a bitterly hostile country; which is precisely 
what, and where, he is, and is the reason he walks in twos and threes. 
And he is not the only one who knows why he is always in company: 
the people who are watching him know why, too. Any street meeting, 
sacred or secular, which he and his colleagues uneasily cover has as 
its explicit or implicit burden the cruelty and injustice of the white 
domination. And these days, of course, in terms increasingly vivid and 
jubilant, it speaks of the end of that domination. The white policeman 
standing on a Harlem street corner finds himself at the very center 
of the revolution now occurring in the world. He is not prepared 
for it- naturally, nobody is- and, what is possibly much more to the 
point, he is exposed, as few white people are, to the anguish of the 
black people around him. Even if he is gifted with the merest mustard 
grain of imagination, something must seep in. He cannot avoid observing 
that some of the children, in spite of their color, remind him of 
children he has known and loved, perhaps even of his own children. He 
knows that he certainly does not want <his> children living this 
way. He can retreat from his uneasiness in only one direction: into 
a callousness which very shortly becomes second nature. He becomes more 
callous, the population becomes more hostile, the situation grows 
more tense, and the police force is increased. One day, to everyone's 
astonishment, someone drops a match in the powder keg and everything 
blows up. Before the dust has settled or the blood congealed, editorials, 
speeches, and civil-rights commissions are loud in the land, demanding 
to know what happened. What happened is that Negroes want to 
be treated like men.   <Negroes want to be treated like men:> 
a perfectly straightforward statement, containing only seven words. 
People who have mastered Kant, Hegel, Shakespeare, Marx, Freud, 
and the Bible find this statement utterly impenetrable. The idea seems 
to threaten profound, barely conscious assumptions. A kind of panic 
paralyzes their features, as though they found themselves trapped on 
the edge of a steep place. I once tried to describe to a very well-known 
American intellectual the conditions among Negroes in the South. 
My recital disturbed him and made him indignant; and he asked me 
in perfect innocence, "Why don't all the Negroes in the South 
move North"? I tried to explain what <has> happened, unfailingly, 
whenever a significant body of Negroes move North. They do not 
escape Jim Crow: they merely encounter another, not-less-deadly 
variety. They do not move to Chicago, they move to the South Side; 
they do not move to New York, they move to Harlem. The pressure 
within the ghetto causes the ghetto walls to expand, and this expansion 
is always violent. White people hold the line as long as they can, 
and in as many ways as they can, from verbal intimidation to physical 
violence. But inevitably the border which has divided the ghetto from 
the rest of the world falls into the hands of the ghetto. The white 
people fall back bitterly before the black horde; the landlords make 
a tidy profit by raising the rent, chopping up the rooms, and all but 
dispensing with the upkeep; and what has once been a neighborhood 
turns into a "turf". This is precisely what happened when the Puerto 
Ricans arrived in their thousands- and the bitterness thus caused 
is, as I write, being fought out all up and down those streets.

Northerners indulge in an extremely dangerous luxury. They seem 
to feel that because they fought on the right side during the Civil 
War, and won, they have earned the right merely to deplore what is going 
on in the South, without taking any responsibility for it; and 
that they can ignore what is happening in Northern cities because what 
is happening in Little Rock or Birmingham is worse. Well, in the 
first place, it is not possible for anyone who has not endured both 
to know which is "worse". I know Negroes who prefer the South and 
white Southerners, because "At least there, you haven't got to 
play any guessing games"! The guessing games referred to have driven 
more than one Negro into the narcotics ward, the madhouse, or the 
river. I know another Negro, a man very dear to me, who says, with 
conviction and with truth, "The spirit of the South is the spirit 
of America". He was born in the North and did his military training 
in the South. He did not, as far as I can gather, find the South 
"worse"; he found it, if anything, all too familiar. In the 
second place, though, even if Birmingham <is> worse, no doubt 
Johannesburg, South Africa, beats it by several miles, and Buchenwald 
was one of the worst things that ever happened in the entire history 
of the world. The world has never lacked for horrifying examples; 
but I do not believe that these examples are meant to be used as justification 
for our own crimes. This perpetual justification empties 
the heart of all human feeling. The emptier our hearts become, the greater 
will be our crimes. Thirdly, the South is not merely an embarrassingly 
backward region, but a part of this country, and what happens 
there concerns every one of us.   As far as the color problem 
is concerned, there is but one great difference between the Southern 
white and the Northerner: the Southerner remembers, historically and 
in his own psyche, a kind of Eden in which he loved black people and 
they loved him. Historically, the flaming sword laid across this Eden 
is the Civil War. Personally, it is the Southerner's sexual 
coming of age, when, without any warning, unbreakable taboos are set 
up between himself and his past. Everything, thereafter, is permitted 
him except the love he remembers and has never ceased to need. The resulting, 
indescribable torment affects every Southern mind and is the 
basis of the Southern hysteria.   None of this is true for the 
Northerner. Negroes represent nothing to him personally, except, perhaps, 
the dangers of carnality. He never sees Negroes. Southerners 
see them all the time. Northerners never think about them whereas Southerners 
are never really thinking of anything else. Negroes are, 
therefore, ignored in the North and are under surveillance in the South, 
and suffer hideously in both places. Neither the Southerner nor 
the Northerner is able to look on the Negro simply as a man. It seems 
to be indispensable to the national self-esteem that the Negro be 
considered either as a kind of ward (in which case we are told how many 
Negroes, comparatively, bought Cadillacs last year and how few, 
comparatively, 
were lynched), or as a victim (in which case we are promised 
that he will never vote in our assemblies or go to school with our 
kids). They are two sides of the same coin and the South will not change- 
<cannot> change- until the North changes. The country will 
not change until it re-examines itself and discovers what it really 
means by freedom. In the meantime, generations keep being born, bitterness 
is increased by incompetence, pride, and folly, and the world shrinks 
around us.   It is a terrible, an inexorable, law that one 
cannot deny the humanity of another without diminishing one's own: 
in the face of one's victim, one sees oneself. Walk through the 
streets of Harlem and see what we, this nation, have become. 

#4. EAST 
RIVER, DOWNTOWN: POSTSCRIPT TO A LETTER FROM HARLEM#
 
 THE 
FACT THAT AMERICAN NEgroes rioted in the U&N& while Adlai 
Stevenson was addressing the Assembly shocked and baffled most white 
Americans. Stevenson's speech, and the spectacular disturbance 
in the gallery, were both touched off by the death, in Katanga, the 
day before, of Patrice Lumumba. Stevenson stated, in the course of 
his address, that the United States was "against" colonialism. God 
knows what the African nations, who hold 25 per cent of the voting 
stock in the U&N& were thinking- they may, for example, have 
been thinking of the U&S& abstention when the vote on Algerian 
freedom was before the Assembly- but I think I have a fairly accurate 
notion of what the Negroes in the gallery were thinking. I had 
intended to be there myself. It was my first reaction upon hearing 
of Lumumba's death. I was curious about the impact of this political 
assassination on Negroes in Harlem, for Lumumba had- has- captured 
the popular imagination there. I was curious to know if Lumumba's 
death, which is surely among the most sinister of recent events, 
would elicit from "our" side anything more than the usual, well-meaning 
rhetoric. And I was curious about the African reaction.

However, the chaos on my desk prevented my being in the U&N& 
gallery. Had I been there, I, too, in the eyes of most Americans, 
would have been merely a pawn in the hands of the Communists. The 
climate and the events of the last decade, and the steady pressure of 
the "cold" war, have given Americans yet another means of avoiding 
self-examination, and so it has been decided that the riots were "Communist" 
inspired. Nor was it long, naturally, before prominent 
Negroes rushed forward to assure the republic that the U&N& rioters 
do not represent the real feeling of the Negro community. 
According, then, to what I take to be the prevailing view, these rioters 
were merely a handful of irresponsible, Stalinist-corrupted <provocateurs>.

I find this view amazing. It is a view which even 
a minimal effort at observation would immediately contradict. One 
has only, for example, to walk through Harlem and ask oneself two questions. 
The first question is: Would <I> like to live here? 
And the second question is: Why don't those who now live here move 
out? The answer to both questions is immediately obvious. Unless 
one takes refuge in the theory- however disguised- that Negroes 
are, somehow, different from white people, I do not see how one can 
escape the conclusion that the Negro's status in this country is 
not only a cruel injustice but a grave national liability.   Now, 
I do not doubt that, among the people at the U&N& that day, there 
were Stalinist and professional revolutionists acting out of the 
most cynical motives. Wherever there is great social discontent, these 
people are, sooner or later, to be found. Their presence is not as 
frightening as the discontent which creates their opportunity. What 
I find appalling- and really dangerous- is the American assumption 
that the Negro is so contented with his lot here that only the cynical 
agents of a foreign power can rouse him to protest. It is a notion 
which contains a gratuitous insult, implying, as it does, that Negroes 
can make no move unless they are manipulated. 
Color was delayed until 1935, the wide screen until the early fifties.

Movement itself was the chief and often the only attraction 
of the primitive movies of the nineties. Each film consisted of fifty 
feet, which gives a running time of about one minute on the screen. 
As long as audiences came to see the movement, there seemed little reason 
to adventure further. Motion-picture exhibitions took place in stores 
in a general atmosphere like that of the penny arcade which can 
still be found in such urban areas as Times Square. Brief snips of 
actual events were shown: parades, dances, street scenes. The sensational 
and frightening enjoyed popularity: a train rushes straight at 
the audience, or a great wave threatens to break over the seats. An 
early Edison production was <The Execution of Mary, Queen of Scots>. 
The unfortunate queen mounted the scaffold; the headsman swung 
his axe; the head dropped off; end of film. An early film by 
a competitor of the Wizard of Menlo Park simply showed a long kiss 
performed by two actors of the contemporary stage.   In the field 
of entertainment there is no spur to financial daring so effective 
as audience boredom, and the first decade of the new device was not over 
before audiences began staying away in large numbers from the simple-minded, 
one-minute shows. In response, the industry allowed the discovery 
of the motion picture as a form of fiction and thus gave the movies 
the essential form they have had to this day. Despite the sheer 
beauty and spectacle of numerous documentaries, art films, and travelogues, 
despite the impressive financial success of such a recent development 
as Cinerama, the movies are at heart a form of fiction, like the 
play, the novel, or the short story. Moreover, the most artistically 
successful of the nonfiction films have invariably borrowed the narrative 
form from the fiction feature. Thus such great American documentaries 
as <The River> and <The Plow That Broke the Plains> 
were composed as visual stories rather than as illustrated lectures. 
The discovery that movies are a form of fiction was made in the early 
years of this century and it was made chiefly by two men, a French 
magician, Georges Melies, and an American employee of Edison, Edwin 
S& Porter. Of the two, Porter is justly the better known, for 
he went far beyond the vital finding of fiction for films to take the 
first step toward fashioning a language of film, toward making the motion 
picture the intricate, efficient time machine that it has remained 
since, even in the most inept hands. 

#NARRATIVE TIME AND FILM TIME# 

Melies, however, out of his professional instincts as a magician, 
discovered and made use of a number of illusionary techniques that remain 
part of the vocabulary of film. One of these is the "dissolve", 
which makes possible a visually smooth transition from scene to scene. 
As the first scene begins to fade, the succeeding scene begins 
to appear. For a moment or two, both scenes are present simultaneously, 
one growing weaker, one growing stronger. In a series of fairy tales 
and fantasies, Melies demonstrated that the film is superbly equipped 
to tell a straightforward story, with beginning, middle and end, complications, 
resolutions, climaxes, and conclusions. Immediately, the 
film improved and it improved because in narrative it found a content 
based on time to complement its own unbreakable connection with time. 
Physically, a movie is possible because a series of images is projected 
one at a time at such a speed that the eye "remembers" the one 
that has gone before even as it registers the one now appearing. Linking 
the smoothly changing images together, the eye itself endows them 
with the illusion of movement. The "projection" time of painting 
and sculpture is highly subjective, varying from person to person and 
even varying for a given person on different occasions. So is the time 
of the novel. The drama in the theater and the concert in the hall 
both have a fixed time, but the time is fixed by the director and the 
players, the conductor and the instrumentalists, subject, therefore, 
to much variation, as record collectors well know. The time of the motion 
picture is fixed absolutely. The film consists of a series of still, 
transparent photographs, or "frames", 35-mm&-wide. Each frame 
comes between the light and the lens and is individually projected 
on the screen, at the rate, for silent movies, of 16 frames per second, 
and, for sound films, 24 frames per second. This is the rate of projection; 
it is also the rate of photographing. Time is built into 
the motion picture, which cannot exist without time. Now time is also 
the concern of the fictional narrative, which is, at its simplest, 
the story of an action with, usually, a beginning, a middle, and an end- 
elements which demand time as the first condition for their existence. 
The "moving" picture of the train or the wave coming at the 
audience is, to be sure, more intense than a still picture of the same 
subject, but the difference is really one of degree; the cinematic 
element of time is merely used to increase the realism of an object which 
would still be reasonably realistic in a still photo. In narrative, 
time is essential, as it is in film. Almost everything about the 
movies that is peculiarly <of> the movies derives from a tension created 
and maintained between narrative time and film time. This discovery 
of Melies was vastly more important than his sometimes dazzling, 
magician's tricks produced on film.   It was Porter, however, 
who produced the very first movie whose name has lived on through the 
half century of film history that has since ensued. The movie was <The 
Great Train Robbery> and its effects on the young industry and 
art were all but incalculable. Overnight, for one thing, Porter's 
film multiplied the standard running time of movies by ten. <The 
Great Train Robbery> is a one-reel film. One reel- from eight to 
twelve minutes- became the standard length from the year of <Robbery>, 
1903, until Griffith shattered that limit forever with <Birth of 
a Nation> in 1915. The reel itself became and still is the standard 
of measure for the movies.   The material of the Porter film 
is simplicity itself; much of it has continued to be used over the 
years and the heart of it- good guys and bad guys in the old West- 
pretty well dominated television toward the end of the 1950's. A 
band of robbers enters a railroad station, overpowers and ties up the 
telegraph operator, holds up the train and escapes. A posse is formed 
and pursues the robbers, who, having made their escape, are whooping 
it up with some wild, wild women in a honky-tonk hide-out. The robbers 
run from the hide-out, take cover in a wooded declivity, and are shot 
dead by the posse. As a finale is appended a close-up of one of the 
band taking aim and firing his revolver straight at the audience.

All this is simple enough, but in telling the story Porter did 
two important things that had not been done before. Each scene is shot 
straight through, as had been the universal custom, from a camera fixed 
in a single position, but in the outdoor scenes, especially in the 
capture and destruction of the outlaws, Porter's camera position 
breaks, necessarily, with the camera position standard until then, which 
had been, roughly, that of a spectator in a center orchestra seat at 
a play. The plane of the action in the scene is not parallel with the 
plane of the film in the camera or on the screen. If the change, at 
first sight, seems minor, we may recall that it took the Italian painters 
about two hundred years to make an analogous change, and the Italian 
painters, by universal consent, were the most brilliant group of 
geniuses any art has seen. In that apparently simple shift Porter 
opened the way to the sensitive use of the camera as an instrument of 
art as well as a mechanical recording device.   He did more than 
that. He revealed the potential value of the "cut" as the basic 
technique in the art of the film. Cutting, of course, takes place automatically 
in the creation of a film. The meaning of the word is quite 
physical, to begin with. The physical film is cut with a knife at the 
end of one complete sequence, and the cut edge is joined physically, 
by cement, to the cut edge of the beginning of the next sequence. If, 
as a home movie maker, you shoot the inevitable footage of your child 
taking its first steps, you have merely recorded an historical event. 
If, in preparing that shot for the inevitable showing to your friends, 
you interrupt the sequence to paste in a few frames of the child's 
grandmother watching this event, you have begun to be an artist in 
film; you are employing the basic technique of film; you are cutting.

This is what Porter did. As the robbers leave the looted 
train, the film suddenly cuts back to the station, where the telegrapher's 
little daughter arrives with her father's dinner pail only 
to find him bound on the floor. She dashes around in alarm. The two 
events are taking place at the same time. Time and space have both become 
cinematic. We leap from event to event- including the formation 
of the posse- even though the events, in "reality" are taking 
place not in sequence but simultaneously, and not near each other but 
at a considerable distance.   The "chase" as a standard film 
device probably dates from <The Great Train Robbery>, and there 
is a reason for the continued popularity of the device. The chase in 
itself is a narrative; it presumes both speed and urgency and it demands 
cutting- both from pursued to pursuer and from stage to stage 
of the journey of both. The simple, naked idea of one man chasing another 
is of its nature better fitted for the film than it is for any other 
form of fiction. The cowboy films, the cops and robbers films, and 
the slapstick comedy films culminating in an insane chase are not 
only catering to what critics may assume to be a vulgar taste for violence; 
these films and these sequences are also seeking out- instinctively 
or by design- the peculiarly cinematic elements of narrative. 

#THE CREATOR OF THE ART OF THE FILM: D&W&GRIFFITH#

There 
still remained the need for one great film artist to explore the full 
potential of the new form and to make it an art. The man was D&W& 
Griffith. When he came to the movies- more or less by accident- 
they were still cheap entertainment capable of enthralling the unthinking 
for an idle few minutes. In about seven years Griffith either 
invented or first realized the possibilities of virtually every resource 
at the disposal of the film maker. Before he was forty Griffith 
had created the art of the film.   Not that there had not been 
attempts, mostly European, to do exactly that. But in general the European 
efforts to make an art of the entertainment had ignored the slowly 
emerging language of the film itself. Staggeringly condensed versions 
of famous novels and famous plays were presented. Great actors 
and actresses- the most notable being Sarah Bernhardt- were hired 
to repeat their stage performances before the camera. In all of this 
extensive and expensive effort, the camera was downgraded to the status 
of recording instrument for art work produced elsewhere by the actor 
or by the author. The phonograph today, for all its high fidelity 
and stereophonic sound, is precisely what the early art purveyors in 
the movies wished to make of the camera. Not surprisingly, this approach 
did not work. The effort produced a valuable record of stage techniques 
in the early years of the century and some interesting records 
of great theater figures who would otherwise be only names. But no art 
at all was born of the art effort in the early movies. 
In general, religious interest seems to exist in all parts of the metropolis; 
congregational membership, however, is another thing. A congregation 
survives only if it can sustain a socially homogeneous membership; 
that is, when it can preserve economic integration. Religious 
faith can be considered a <necessary> condition of membership in 
a congregation, since the decision to join a worshiping group requires 
some motive force, but faith is not a <sufficient> condition for joining; 
the presence of other members of similar social and economic 
level is the <sufficient> condition.   The breakdown of social 
homogeneity in inner city areas and the spread of inner city blight account 
for the decline of central city churches. Central cities reveal 
two adverse features for the major denominations: (1) central cities 
tend to be areas of residence for lower social classes; (2) central 
cities tend to be more heterogeneous in social composition. The central 
city areas, in other words, exhibit the two characteristics which 
violate the life principle of congregations of the major denominations: 
they have too few middle-class people; they mix middle-class people 
with lower-class residents. Central city areas have become progressively 
poorer locales for the major denominations since the exodus 
of middle-class people from most central cities. With few exceptions, 
the major denominations are rapidly losing their hold on the central 
city.   The key to Protestant development, therefore, is economic 
integration of the nucleus of the congregation. Members of higher 
and lower social status often cluster around this nucleus, so that Protestant 
figures on social class give the impression of spread over all 
social classes; but this is deceptive, for the core of membership 
is 
concentrated in a single social and economic stratum. The congregation 
perishes when it is no longer possible to replenish that core from the 
neighborhood; moreover, residential mobility is so high in metropolitan 
areas that churches have to recruit constantly in their core stratum 
in order to survive; they can lose higher- and lower-status members 
from the church without collapsing, but they need adequate recruits 
for the core stratum in order to preserve economic integration. The 
congregation is first and foremost an economic peer group; it is 
secondarily a believing and worshiping fellowship. If it were primarily 
a believing fellowship, it would recruit believers from all social 
and economic ranks, something which most congregations of the New Protestantism 
(with a few notable exceptions) have not been able to do. 
They survive only when they can recruit social and economic peers.

The vulnerability of Protestant congregations to social differences 
has often been attributed to the "folksy spirit" of Protestant 
religious life; in fact, a contrast is often drawn in this regard 
with the "impersonal" Roman Catholic parish. We have seen that 
the folksy spirit is confined to economic peers; consequently, the 
vulnerability to social difference should not be attributed to the stress 
on personal community in Protestant congregations; actually, there 
is little evidence of such personal community in Protestant congregations, 
as we shall see in another connection. The vulnerability of 
Protestantism to social differences stems from the peculiar role of 
the new religious style in middle-class life, where the congregation is 
a vehicle of social and economic group identity and must conform, therefore, 
to the principle of economic integration. This fact is evident 
in the recruitment of new members. 

#MISSION AS CO-OPTATION#

The 
rule of economic integration in congregational life can be seen in the 
missionary outreach of the major denominations. There is much talk 
in theological circles about the "Church as Mission" and the "Church's 
Mission"; theologians have been stressing the fact that 
the Church does not exist for its own sake but as a testimony in 
the world for the healing of the world. A crucial question, therefore, 
is what evangelism and mission actually mean in metropolitan Protestantism. 
If economic integration really shapes congregational life, then 
evangelism should be a process of extending economic integration. 
The task of a congregation would be defined, according to economic integration, 
as the work of co-opting individuals and families of similar 
social and economic position to replenish the nuclear core of the congregation. 
(Co-optation means to choose by joint action in order to 
fill a vacancy; it can also mean the assimilation of centers of power 
from an environment in order to strengthen an organization.) In a 
mobile society, congregational health depends on a constant process of 
recruitment; this recruitment, however, must follow the pattern of 
economic integration or it will disrupt the congregation; therefore, 
the recruitment or missionary outreach of the congregation will be co-optation 
rather than proclamation- like elements will have to be assimilated.

Evangelism and congregational outreach have not been 
carefully studied in the churches; one study in Pittsburgh, however, 
has illuminated the situation. In a sample of new members of Pittsburgh 
churches, almost 60 per cent were recruited by initial "contacts 
with friendly members". If we add to these contacts with friendly 
members the "contacts with an organization of the church" (11.2 
per cent of the cases), then a substantial two thirds of all recruitment 
is through friendly contact. On the surface, this seems a sound 
approach to Christian mission: members of the congregation show by 
their friendly attitudes that they care for new people; the new people 
respond in kind by joining the church.   Missionary outreach 
by friendly contact looks somewhat different when one reflects on what 
is known about friendly contact in metropolitan neighborhoods; the majority 
of such contacts are with people of similar social and economic 
position; association by level of achievement is the dominant principle 
of informal relations. This means that the antennae of the congregation 
are extended into the community, picking up the wave lengths 
of those who will fit into the social and economic level of the congregation; 
the mission of the church is actually a process of informal 
co-optation; the lay ministry is a means to recruit like-minded people 
who will strengthen the social class nucleus of the congregation. 
Churches can be strengthened through this process of co-optation so long 
as the environs of the church provide a sufficient pool of people 
who can fit the pattern of economic integration; once the pool of recruits 
diminishes, the congregation is helpless- friendly contacts no 
longer keep it going.   The transmutation of mission to co-optation 
is further indicated by the insignificance of educational activities, 
worship, preaching, and publicity in reaching new members. The 
proclamation of the churches is almost totally confined to pastoral contacts 
by the clergy (17.3 per cent of new members) and friendly contacts 
by members (over two thirds if organizational activities are included). 
Publicity accounted for 1.1 per cent of the initial contacts with 
new members. In general, friendly contact with a member followed by 
contact with a clergyman will account for a major share of recruitment 
by the churches, making it quite evident that the extension of economic 
integration through co-optation is the principal form of mission 
in the contemporary church; economic integration and co-optation are 
the two methods by which Protestants associate with and recruit from 
the neighborhood. The inner life of congregations will prosper so long 
as like-minded people of similar social and economic level can fraternize 
together; the outer life of congregations- the suitability 
of the environment to their survival- will be propitious so long as 
the people in the area are of the same social and economic level as the 
membership. Economic integration ceases when the social and economic 
statuses in an area become too mixed or conflict with the status of 
the congregation. In a rapidly changing society congregations will run 
into difficulties repeatedly, since such nice balances of economic integration 
are hard to sustain in the metropolis for more than a single 
generation. The fact that metropolitan churches of the major denominations 
have moved approximately every generation for the last hundred 
years becomes somewhat more intelligible in the light of this struggle 
to maintain economic balance. The expense of this type of organization 
in religious life, when one recalls the number of city churches which 
deteriorated beyond repair before being abandoned, raises fundamental 
questions about the principle of Protestant survival in a mobile 
society; nonetheless, the prevalence of economic integration in congregations 
illumines the nature of the Protestant development. 
It was observed in the introductory chapter that metropolitan life had 
split into two trends- expanding interdependence on an impersonal 
basis and growing exclusiveness in local communal groupings. These trends 
seem to be working at cross-purposes in the metropolis. Residential 
associations struggle to insulate themselves against intrusions. 
The motifs of impersonal interdependence and insulation of residential 
communities have polarized; the schism between central city and suburb, 
Negro and White, blue collar and white collar can be viewed as 
symptomatic of this deeper polarization of trends in the metropolis. 
It now becomes evident that the denominational church is intimately involved 
with the economy of middle-class culture, for it serves to crystallize 
the social class identity of middle-class residential groupings. 
The accelerated pace of metropolitan changes has accentuated the 
drive to conformity in congregations of the major denominations. This 
conformity represents a desperate attempt to stabilize a hopelessly unstable 
environment. More than creatures of metropolitan forces, the 
churches have taken the lead in counteracting the interdependence of metropolitan 
life, crystallizing and perpetuating the stratification of 
peoples, giving form to the struggle for social homogeneity in a world 
of heterogeneous peoples.   Since American life is committed 
above all to productivity and a higher standard of economic life, the 
countervailing forces of residential and religious exclusiveness have 
fought a desperate, rearguard action against the expanding interdependence 
of the metropolis. Consumer communities have suffered at the hands 
of the productive interests. Negroes, Puerto Ricans, and rural 
newcomers are slowly making their way into the cities. Soon they will 
fight their way into the lower middle-class suburbs, and the churches 
will experience the same decay and rebuilding cycle which has characterized 
their history for a century. The identification of the basic unit 
of religious organization- the parish or congregation- with a 
residential area is self-defeating in a modern metropolis, for it simply 
means the closing of an iron trap on the outreach of the Christian 
fellowship and the transmutation of mission to co-optation. Mission 
to the metropolis contradicts survival of the congregation in the residential 
community, because the middle classes are fighting metropolitan 
interdependence with residential exclusion.   This interpretation 
of the role of residence in the economy of middle-class culture could 
lead to various projections for the churches. It could be argued 
that any fellowship which centers in residential neighborhoods is doomed 
to become an expression of the panic for stable identity among the 
middle classes. It could be argued that only such neighborhoods can sustain 
religious activity, since worship presupposes some local stabilities. 
Whatever projection one makes, the striking fact about congregational 
and parochial life is the extent to which it is a vehicle of the 
social identity of middle-class people.   Attention will be given 
in the next chapter to the style of association in the denominational 
churches; this style is characteristically an expression of the 
communal style of the middle classes. The keynotes of this style are 
activism and emphasis on achievements in gaining self-esteem. These 
values give direction to the life of the middle-class man or woman, dictating 
the methods of child rearing, determining the pattern of community 
participation, setting the style for the psychiatric treatment of 
middle-class illness, and informing the congregational life of the major 
denominations. "Fellowship by likeness" and "mission by friendly 
contact" form the iron cage of denominational religion. Its contents 
are another matter, for they reveal the kinds of interests pursued 
by the congregation. What goes on in the cage will occupy our attention 
under the rubric of the organization church. An understanding 
of the new role of residential association in an industrial society 
serves to illuminate the forces which have fashioned the iron cage of 
conformity which imprisons the churches in their suburban captivity.

The perplexing question still remains as to why the middle classes 
turn to the churches as a vehicle of social identity when their clubs 
and charities should fill the same need. 
With capital largely squandered, there seemed to them no other course 
to pursue.   The directors sold directly to concessionaires, who 
had to make their profits above the high prices asked by the company. 
These concessionaires traded where they wished and generally dealt 
with the Indians through <engages>, who might be <habitants, voyageurs>, 
or even soldiers. The concessionaires also had to pay a tax of 
one-tenth on the goods they traded, and all pelts were to be taken to 
company stores and shipped to France in company ships. The company 
disposed of the pelts, but with what profit, the records do not show.

In accord with its penurious policy, the company failed to furnish 
presents to hold the loyalty of the principal Indians. The lavish 
use of presents had been effective in expanding the Indian trade 
of New France and Louisiana in the previous century, and the change 
in liberality aroused resentment in the minds of the red men. Traders 
from the English colonies were far more generous, and Indian loyalty 
turned to them. Protests from governors and intendants passed unheeded, 
and the parsimonious policy of the company probably let loose Indian 
insurrections that brought ruin to the company.   In 1721 
the King sent three commissioners to Louisiana with full powers to do 
all that was necessary to protect the colony. They ordered the raising 
of troops and obtained 75,000 livres with which to build forts. They 
adopted a program by which Louisiana was divided into five districts. 
In each of these there was to be a strong military post, and a trading 
depot to supply the smaller trading houses. For southeastern 
Louisiana, 
Mobile was the principal post, and it was to furnish supplies 
for trade to the north and east, in the region threatened by British 
traders. Mobile was to be the anchor of a chain of posts extending 
northward to the sources of the Tennessee River. Fort Toulouse, 
on the Alabama River, had been erected in 1714 for trade with the Alabamas 
and Choctaws, but money was available for only one other new 
post, near the present Nashville, Tennessee, and this was soon abandoned.

West of the Mobile district was the lower Mississippi 
district, of which New Orleans was headquarters. Dependent upon it 
were posts on the lower Mississippi and the region westward to the frontiers 
of New Spain.   On the middle Mississippi a principal 
post was to be located near the mouth of the Arkansas. It was hoped 
that to this post would flow a large quantity of furs from the west, 
principally down the Arkansas River. On the Ohio or Wabash was to 
be built another post "at the fork of two great rivers". Other 
posts would be established up the Ohio and Wabash to protect communication 
with Canada. On the upper Mississippi the Illinois post was 
to be established near Kaskaskia, and dependent posts were to be built 
on the Missouri, "where there are mines in abundance". 
Each of the five principal posts was to have a director, responsible 
to a director-general at New Orleans. An elaborate system of accounting 
and reports was worked out, and the trade was to be managed in the 
most scientific way. Concessionaires were to be under the supervision 
of the directors. <Engages> must be loyal to the concessionaires, 
and must serve until the term provided in the engagement was ended. 
The <habitants> were to be encouraged to trade and were to dispose 
of their pelts to the concessionaires.   Only two principal storehouses 
were actually established- one at Mobile, the other at New 
Orleans. New Orleans supplied the goods for the trade on the Mississippi, 
and west of that river, and on the Ohio and Wabash. Mobile 
was also supplied by New Orleans with goods for the Mobile district.

The power that Bienville exercised during his first administration 
cannot be determined. Regulations for the Indian trade were 
made by the <Conseil superieure de la Louisiane>, and Bienville 
apparently did not have control of that body. The <Conseil> even 
treated the serious matter of British aggression as its business and, 
on its own authority, sent to disaffected savages merchandise "suitable 
for the peltry trade". It decided, also, that the purely secular 
efforts of Bienville were insufficient, and sent missionaries to 
win the savages from the heathen Carolinians.   During the first 
administration of Bienville, the peltry trade of the Mobile district 
was a lucrative source of revenue. The Alabamas brought in annually 
15,000 to 20,000 deerskins, and the Choctaws and Chickasaws brought 
the total up to 50,000 pelts. These deerskins were the raw material 
for the manufacture of leather, and were the only articles which the 
tribes of this district had to exchange for European goods. 
During his first administration, Bienville succeeded in keeping Carolina 
traders out of the Alabama country and the Choctaw country. The 
director of the post at Mobile kept an adequate amount of French 
goods, of a kind to which they were accustomed, to supply the Indian 
needs. The Alabama and Tombigbee rivers furnished a highway by which 
goods could be moved quickly and cheaply. De la Laude, commander 
of the Alabama post, had the friendship of the natives, and was able 
to make them look upon the British as poor competitors. Diron d'Artaguette, 
the most prominent trader in the district, was energetic and 
resourceful, but his methods often aroused the ire of the French governors. 
He became, after a time, commander of a post on the Alabama 
River, but his operations extended from Mobile throughout the district, 
and he finally obtained a monopoly of the Indian trade.   The 
Chickasaws were the principal source of trouble in the Mobile district. 
Their territory lay to the north, near the sources of the Alabama, 
the Tombigbee, the Tennessee, and Cumberland rivers, and was 
easily accessible to traders among the near-by Cherokees. In 1720 some 
Chickasaws massacred the French traders among them, and did not 
make peace for four years. Venturesome traders, however, continued to 
come to them from Mobile, and to obtain a considerable number of pelts 
for the French markets. British traders from South Carolina incited 
the Indians against the French, and there developed French and 
British Factions in the tribe. The Chickasaws finally were the occasion 
for the most disastrous wars during the French control of Louisiana. 
To hold them was an essential part of French policy, for they 
controlled the upper termini of the routes from the north to Mobile. 
They threatened constantly to give the British a hold on this region, 
from whence they could move easily down the rivers to the French 
settlements near the Gulf.   Bienville realized that if the French 
were to hold the southeastern tribes against the enticements of British 
goods, French traders must be able to offer a supply as abundant 
as the Carolinians and at reasonable prices. His urgings brought 
some results. The Company of the Indies promised to send over a supply 
of Indian trading goods, and to price them more cheaply in terms 
of deerskins. But it coupled with this a requirement that Indians 
must bring their pelts to Mobile and thus save all costs of transportation 
into and out of the Indian country.   The insistence of Bienville 
upon giving liberal prices to the Indians, in order to drive 
back the Carolina traders, was probably a factor that led to his recall 
in 1724. For two years his friend and cousin, Boisbriant, remained 
as acting governor and could do little to stem the Anglican advance. 
Although he incited a few friendly Indians to pillage the invaders, 
and even kill some of them, the Carolina advance continued.

The company was impressed with some ideas of the danger from Carolina, 
and when Perier came over as governor in 1727, he was given special 
instructions regarding the trade of the Mobile district. But the 
Company of the Indies, holding to its program of economy, made no arrangements 
to furnish better goods at attractive prices. To the directors 
the problem appeared a matter of intrigue or diplomacy. Perier 
attempted to understand the problem by sending agents to inquire among 
the Indians. These agents were to ascertain the difference between 
English and French goods, and the prices charged the Indians. They 
were to conciliate the unfriendly savages, and, wherever possible, to 
incite the natives to pillage the traders from Carolina. They were 
to promise fine presents to the loyal red men, as well as an abundant 
supply of trading goods at better prices than the opposition was offering. 
Perier's intrigues gained some successes. The savages divided 
into two factions; one was British and the other, French. So hostile 
did these factions become that, among the Choctaws, civil war broke 
out.   Perier's efforts, however, were on the whole ineffective 
in winning back the tribes of the Mobile district, and he decided 
to send troops into the troubled country. He asked the government 
for two hundred soldiers, who were to be specifically assigned to arrest 
English traders and disloyal Indians. In spite of the company's 
restrictions, he planned to build new posts in the territory. He asked 
also for more supplies to trade at a low price for the Indians' 
pelts.   No help came from the crown, and Perier, in desperation, 
gave a monopoly of the Indian trade in the district to D'Artaguette. 
D'Artaguette went vigorously to work, and gave credit to many 
hunters. But they brought back few pelts to pay their debts, and soon 
French trade in the region was at an end. Perier finally, in one 
last bid in 1730, cut the price of goods to an advance of 40 per cent 
above the cost in France. The Indians were not impressed and held 
to the Carolina traders, who swarmed over the country, almost to the 
Mississippi.   With the loss of the Mobile trade, which ended 
all profits from Louisiana, the Natchez Indians revolted. They destroyed 
a trading house and pillaged the goods, and harassed French shipping 
on the Mississippi. The war to subdue them taxed the resources 
of the colony and piled up enormous debts. In January, 1731, the company 
asked the crown to relieve it of the government of the colony. 
It stated that it had lost 20,000,000 livres in its operations, and apparently 
blamed its poor success largely on the Indian trade. It offered 
to surrender its right to exclusive trade, but asked an indemnity. 
The King accepted the surrender and fixed the compensation of the 
company at 1,450,000 livres. Thenceforth, the commerce of Louisiana 
was free to all Frenchmen.   Company rule in Louisiana left the 
colony without fortifications, arms, munitions, or supplies. The difficulties 
of trade had ruined many <voyageurs>, and numbers of them 
had gone to live with the natives and rear half-blood families. Others 
left the country, and there was no one familiar with the Indian trade. 
If this trade should be resumed, the <habitants> who had come 
to be farmers or artisans, and soldiers discharged from the army, must 
be hardened to the severe life of <coureurs de bois>. This was a 
slow and difficult course, and French trade suffered from the many mistakes 
of the new group of traders. These men were without capital or 
experience.   Perier and Salmon, the intendant, wished either 
to entrust the trade to an association of merchants or to have the crown 
furnish goods on credit to individuals who would repay their debts 
with pelts. Bienville, who returned to succeed Perier in 1732, objected 
that the merchants would not accept the responsibility of managing 
a trade in which they could see no hope of profits. He reported, too, 
that among the <habitants> there were none of probity and ability 
sufficient to justify entrusting them with the King's goods. He did 
find some to trust, however, and he employed the King's soldiers 
to trade. With no company to interfere, he kept close control over all 
the traders.   In order to compete with English traders, Bienville 
radically changed the price schedule. The King should expect 
no profit, and an advance of only 20 per cent above the cost in France, 
which would cover the expense of transportation and handling, was all 
he charged the traders. 
They would not be pleased to have it published back home that they planned 
a frolic in Paris or Hong Kong at the Treasury's expense. 
They would be particularly displeased with the State Department if 
it were the source of such reports. Few things are more perilous for 
the State Department than a displeased congressman.   The reason 
for this bears explaining for those who may wonder why State spends 
so much of its diplomatic energy on Congress when the Russians are 
so available. First, the State Department is unique among government 
agencies for its lack of public supporters. The farmers may be aroused 
if Congress cuts into the Agriculture Department's budget. Businessmen 
will rise if Congress attacks the Commerce Department. 
Labor restrains undue brutality toward the Labor Department; the 
Chamber of Commerce, assaults upon the Treasury. A kaleidoscope of 
pressure groups make it unpleasant for the congressman who becomes ugly 
toward the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. The congressman's 
patriotism is always involved when he turns upon the Defense 
Department. Tampering with the Post Office may infuriate every 
voter who can write.   With all these agencies, the congressman 
must constantly check the political wind and trim his sails accordingly. 
No such political restraint subdues his blood when he gazes upon 
the State Department in anger.   In many sections he may even 
reap applause from press and public for giving it a good lesson. After 
all, the money dispensed by State goes not to the farmer, the laborer, 
or the businessman, but to <foreigners>. Not only do these foreigners 
not vote for American congressmen; they are also probably 
ungrateful for Uncle's Sam's bounty. And are not the State Department 
men who dispense this largesse merely crackpots and do-gooders 
who have never met a payroll? Will not the righteous congressman 
be cheered at the polls if he reminds them to get right with America 
and if he saves the taxpayer some money by spoiling a few of their schemes? 
The chances are excellent that he will.   The result is 
that the State Department's perpetual position before Congress is 
the resigned pose of the whipping boy who expects to be kicked whenever 
the master has had a dyspeptic outing with his wife. People in this 
position do not offend the master by relating his peccadilloes to the 
newspapers. State keeps the junketeering list a secret.   The 
Department expects and receives no thanks from Congress for its discretion. 
Congress is a harsh master. State is expected to arrange the 
touring Cicero's foreign itinerary; its embassies are expected 
to supply him with reams of local money to pay his way; embassy workers 
are expected to entertain him according to his whim, frequently with 
their savings for the children's college tuition.   But come 
the next session of Congress, State can expect only that its summer 
guest will bite its hand when it goes to the Capitol asking money 
for diplomatic entertaining expenses abroad or for living expenses for 
its diplomats. The congressman who, in Paris, may have stuffed his 
wallet with enough franc notes to paper the roof of Notre-Dame will 
systematically scream that a $200 increase in entertainment allowance 
for a second secretary is tantamount to debauchery of the Treasury.

In the matter of money State's most unrelenting watchdog during 
the Eisenhower years was Representative John J& Rooney, of 
Brooklyn, who controlled the purse for diplomatic administrative expenses. 
Diplomats stayed up nights thinking of ways to attain peaceful 
coexistence, not with Nikita Khrushchev, but with John Rooney. Nothing 
worked. In the most confidential whispers ambassadors told of 
techniques they had tried to bring Rooney around- friendly persuasion, 
groveling abasement, pressure subtly exerted through other powerful 
congressmen, tales of heartbreak and penury among a threadbare diplomatic 
corps. Rooney remained untouched.   "The trouble" explained 
Loy Henderson, then Deputy Undersecretary for Administration, 
"is that when we get into an argument with him about this thing, 
it always turns out that Rooney knows more about our budget than we 
do".   One year the Department collected a file of case histories 
to document its argument that men in the field were paying the government's 
entertainment bills out of personal income. News of the 
project reached the press. Next day, reports went through the Department 
that Rooney had been outraged by what he considered a patent attempt 
to put public pressure on him for increased entertainment allowances 
and had sworn an oath that, that year, expense allowances would not 
rise a dollar. They didn't.   The Department's constant 
fight with the House for money is a polite minuet compared with its periodic 
bloody engagements with the Senate. Armed with constitutional 
power to negate the Executive's foreign policy, the Senate carries 
a big stick and is easily provoked to use it on the State Department's 
back, or on the head of the Secretary of State.   With 
its power to investigate, the Senate can paralyze the Secretary by 
keeping him in a state of perpetual testimony before committees, as it 
did with Dean Acheson. John Foster Dulles escaped by keeping his 
personal show on the road and because Lyndon Johnson, who was then 
operating the Senate, refused to let it become an Inquisition. During 
Dulles's first two years in office, while Republicans ran the 
Senate, the Department was at the mercy of men who had thirsted for 
its 
blood since 1945.   An internal police operation managed by Scott 
McLeod, a former F&B&I& man installed as security officer 
upon congressional insistence, was part of the vengeance. So was 
the attack upon Charles E& Bohlen when Eisenhower appointed him 
Ambassador to Moscow. The principal mauler, however, was Senator 
Joseph McCarthy. Where Acheson had fought a gallant losing battle 
for the Department, Dulles fed the crocodile with his subordinates. 
Fretting privately but eschewing public defense of his terrorized bureaucrats, 
Dulles remained serene and detached while the hatchet men 
had their way.   In view of Eisenhower's reluctance to concede 
that anything was amiss in the Terror, it is doubtful that heroic intervention 
by Dulles could have produced anything but disaster for him 
and the country's foreign policy. In any event, the example of Acheson's 
trampling by the Senate did not encourage Dulles to provoke 
it. He elected to "get along".   During this dark chapter 
in State Department history, men who had offered foreign-policy ideas 
later proven wrong by events filled the tumbrels sent up to Capitol 
Hill. Their old errors of judgment were equated, in the curious 
logic of the time, with present treasonous intent. Their successors, 
absorbing the lesson, made it a point to have few ideas.   This, 
in turn, brought a new fashion in senatorial criticism as the Democrats 
took control. In the new style, the Department was berated as intellectually 
barren and unable to produce the vital ideas needed to outwit 
the Russians. For three or four years in the mid-1950's, this 
complaint was heard rumbling up from the Senate floor whenever there 
was a dull legislative afternoon. It became smart to say that the fault 
was with Dulles because he would not countenance thinking done by 
anyone but himself.   An equally tenable thesis is that the dearth 
of new thought was created by the Senate's own penchant for crucifying 
anyone whose ideas seem unorthodox to the next generation. #@ 
GETTING ALONG WITH FOREIGNERS#

THERE ARE ninety-eight foreign 
embassies and legations in Washington. They range from the Soviet 
Embassy on Sixteenth Street, a gray shuttered pile suggesting a 
funeral-accessories 
display house, to what Congressman Rooney has called 
"that monstrosity on Thirty-fourth Street", the modern cement-and-glass 
chancery of the Belgians.   Here is the world of the 
chauffeured limousine and the gossip reporter, of caviar on stale crackers 
and the warm martini, of the poseur, the spy, the party crasher, 
and the patriot, of the rented tails, the double cross, and the tired 
Lothario.   Into its chanceries each day pour reports from ministries 
around the earth and an endless stream of home-office instructions 
on how to handle Uncle Sam in an infinite variety of contingencies. 
Here are hatched plans for getting a share of the American bounty, 
the secret of the anti-missile missile, or an invitation to dinner. 
Out of it each week go hundreds of thousands of words purporting 
to inform home ministries about what is really happening inside Washington. 
Some, like the British and the French, maintain an elaborate 
system of personal contacts and have experts constantly studying special 
areas of the American scene. Other embassies cable home <The 
New York Times> without changing a comma.   Each has its peculiar 
style. The Soviet Embassy is popularly regarded as Russian espionage 
headquarters. When Ambassador Mikhail Menshikov took it over 
in 1957 from Georgi Zaroubin, he made a determined effort to change 
this idea. Menshikov hit Washington with a ~TV announcer's 
grin and a hearty handclasp. To everyone's astonishment he seemed 
no more like the run-of-the-mine Russian ambassador than George Babbitt 
was like Fyodor Pavlovitch Karamazov.   Where his predecessors 
had glowered, Menshikov smiled. Where they had affected the 
bleak social style of embalmers' assistants, Menshikov went abroad 
gorgeous in white tie and tails. Overnight he became the most available 
man in Washington. Speeches by the Soviet ambassador became the 
vogue as he obliged rural Maryland Rotarians and National Press Club 
alike. In Senator Joseph McCarthy's phrase, it was the most 
unheard-of thing ever heard of. A newspaperman who met him at a reception 
swore that he asked Menshikov: "What should we call you"? 
And that Menshikov replied: "Just call me Mike". 
"Smilin' Mike" was the sobriquet Washington gave him. His English 
was usable and he used it fearlessly. Toasting in champagne one 
night at the embassy, he hoisted his glass to a senator's wife and 
gaily cried: "Up your bottom"! For a few giddy months that 
coincided with one of Moscow's smiling moods, he was the sensation 
of Washington. At the State Department, hard-bitten Russian experts 
complained that the Capitol was out of its wits. Newspaper punditry 
was inspired to remind everyone that Judas, too, had been able to 
smile.   The Menshikov interlude ended as larks with the Russians 
usually end. Finding peaceful coexistence temporarily unsuitable 
because of domestic politics, Moscow resumed scowling and "Smilin' 
Mike" dropped quietly out of the press except for an occasional 
story reporting that he had been stoned somewhere in the Middle West.

The most inscrutable embassies are the Arabs', and the most 
inscrutable of the Arabs are the Saudi Arabians. When King Saud 
visited Washington, the overwhelming question consuming the press 
was the size of his family. Rumor had it that his children numbered 
in the hundreds. The State Department was little help on this, or 
on much else about Saudi Arabia. A reporter who consulted a Middle 
East Information officer for routine vital statistics got nowhere until 
the State Department man produced from his bottom desk drawer a 
brochure published by the Arabian-American Oil Company. "This 
is where I get my information from", he confided. "But bring it 
right back. It's the only copy I've got".   The size of 
Saud's family was still being debated when the King appeared for his 
first meeting with Eisenhower. When it ended, a dusky sheik in desert 
robes flowed into Hagerty's office to report on the interview. 
The massed reporters brushed aside the customary bromides about Saudi-American 
friendship to bore in on the central question. How many 
children did the King have?   "Twenty-one", replied the sheik.

And how many of these were sons?   "Twenty-five", 
the sheik replied.   "Do you mean to tell us", a reporter 
asked, "that the King has twenty-one children, twenty-five of whom 
are sons"?   The sheik smiled and murmured: "That is 
precisely correct".   The Egyptians are noted for elusiveness 
of language. When Dag Hammarskjold was negotiating the Middle East 
peace after Israel's 1956 invasion of Egypt, he soon found himself 
speaking the mysterious phrases of Cairo, a language as anarchic 
as Casey Stengel's. The reports of President Nasser's pledges 
which Hammarskjold was relaying from Cairo to Washington became 
increasingly incomprehensible to other diplomats, including the Israeli 
Foreign Minister, Mrs& Golda Meir. Finally he reported that 
Nasser was ready to make a concrete commitment in return for Israeli 
concessions. 
The deep water is used by many people, but it is always clean, for the 
washing is done outside. I know now why our Japanese friends were 
surprised when they walked into our bathroom.   Of course, most 
toilets are Eastern style- at floor level- but even when they are 
raised to chair height, they are actually outside toilets- inside. 
A few newer homes have Western flush toilets, but even with running 
water, they are usually Eastern style.   The next day I visited 
International Christian College which has developed since the war 
under the leadership of people who were interned and who know Japan 
well. They are trying to demonstrate some different ways of teaching 
and learning. The library has open shelves even in the unbound periodical 
stockroom. Spiritual life is cultivated, but students do not need 
to be Christian. They have an enviable record of being able to place 
in employment 100% of their graduates.   In the afternoon Miss 
Hosaka and her mother invited me to go with them and young Mrs& 
Kodama to see the famous Spring dances of the Geisha dancers. Mrs& 
Hosaka is one of the Japanese women one reads about- beautiful, 
artistically talented, an artful manager of her big household- 
(four boys and four girls), and yet looking like a pampered, gentle Japanese 
woman. She was a real experience! The dances were as beautiful 
as anything I have ever seen- they rival the New York Rockettes 
for scenery and precision as well as imagination.   Because 
Don was leaving the next day, I spent the evening with him at Asia 
Center. The following morning Mr& Morikawa called for me, and 
we went to visit schools- kindergarten, middle-school, elementary 
school, and high school- Mr& Yoshimoto's school. There 
is much more freedom in the schools here than I expected- some think 
too much.   There is a great deal of thought being given to 
the question of moral education in the schools. With the loss of the 
Emperor diety in Japan, the people are left in confusion with no God 
or moral teachings that have strength. The older parents continued 
to teach their children traditional principles, but the younger people, 
who have lost all faith and convictions, are now parents. There seems 
to be no purpose in life that is sure- no certain guiding principles 
to give stability. As a result, money is spent quickly and freely, 
with no thought of its value. Gambling is everywhere, especially among 
students. Parents indulge their children.   The government 
has recognized the dilemma and is beginning to devise some moral education 
for the schools- but the teachers often have no firm conviction 
and are confused. I was told that it is quite likely that Japanese 
soldiers would not fight again- for why should they? It will be 
painful, but interesting, to see what kind of a god these people will 
create or what strong convictions they will develop.   In the evening 
the former Oregon State science teachers met for dinner at the 
New Tokyo Restaurant where I had my first raw fish and found it good. 
They suggested several new foods, and usually I found them good, 
except the sweets, which I think I could learn to like. Six of the 
science teachers were present, and we had great fun. 

#KYOTO#

After 
a day at Nikko, Mrs& Kodama put me on the train for Kyoto. 
My instructions were that Mr& Nishimo would meet me at the hotel, 
but instead he and three others were at the station with a very warm 
welcome. My hotel rooms on the trip were arranged by Masu and the Japan 
Travel Bureau and were more elegant than I would have chosen, 
but it was fun for once to be elegant- I did explain to the students, 
however, that this was not my usual style, for their salaries are very 
small, and it seemed out of place for me to be housed so well. They 
understood and teased me a bit about it.   I think I would have 
been much disappointed in Japan if I had not seen Kyoto, Nara, 
and Hiroshima. Kyoto is the ancient capital of Japan and still its 
cultural center. It, along with Nara, was untouched by the war- 
and 
is now a beautiful example of the loveliness of prewar Japan. Here 
I was accompanied by Mrs& Okamoto (Fumio's mother), her son, 
Mr& Washizu (a prospective student with whom I have been corresponding 
for more than a year), and Mr& Nishima, one of the science 
teachers. I arrived at 7:00 a&m& and by 9:00 a&m& I had 
finished breakfast and was on my way to see what they had planned. 
We walked miles and saw various shrines and gardens. We visited the 
Okamoto home- where for the first time I saw the famous tea ceremony. 
At 6:00 p&m& we went to the Kyoto Spring dances at the place 
where these beautiful dances originated. They were even better than 
those of Tokyo- more spectacular and more imaginative.   After 
a supper of <unagi> (rice with eel- eel which is raised in an 
ice-cold pond at the foot of Mt& Fuji), I returned to my beautiful 
room to sleep as hard as possible to be ready for another busy day. 
We started at 9 a&m& to visit the Kyoto University where Mr& 
Washizu is attending. I was amazed at the very poor hospital facilities 
accompanying the medical school. They apologized for the condition, 
including dirt and flies, and I was a little at a loss to know what 
to say. There seemed to be no excuse? I don't have the answer 
yet.   We had tea at Mr& Washizu's home where I learned 
that he, too, comes from a very wealthy family. His grandfather is 
a Buddhist priest; and he, being the eldest, was supposed to be a priest, 
but he chose to do differently, and one of his brothers is to become 
the priest. This is a significant fact in Japan, for only a few 
years ago he would have had no choice. In his big home live four families 
and thirty people, so it needs to be big. Also, there are housed 
here some priceless historical treasures from 400 to 600 years old- 
paintings, lacquer, brocade, etc&. He had displayed more of them 
than usual so that I could enjoy them. About 100 of the most important 
items he had already given to the museum. The house itself is 400 
years old with all the craftsmanship of older, less-hurried times. 

#NARA, 
OSAKA, AND HIROSHIMA#

Mr& Nishima went with me on the train 
to Nara. We passed his house and school on the way. In Nara I 
stayed at the hotel where the Prince and Princess had stayed on their 
honeymoon. A new red carpet had been laid for their coming, but I 
walked on it, too. Here Mr& Yoneda met us after a three-hour train 
trip from the town where he teaches. Even though we had walked miles 
in Kyoto that day, we started out again to see Nara at night.

In the evening both of the men went with me on the train 30 miles 
to Osaka to put me on the train for Hiroshima. Again the plan was 
for me to go alone, but they wouldn't let me. At Osaka, Mr& Yoneda 
had to leave us to get the train to his home, but Mr& Nishima 
and I had an hour and a half before train time to see Osaka at night. 
It is the second largest city in Japan, with about four million people. 
One spot in Osaka I shall always remember- the bridge where 
we stood to watch the reflections of the elaborate neon signs in the 
still waters of the river. In the midst of a great busy city, people 
take time to enjoy the beauty of natural reflection of artificial light.

My train arrived in Hiroshima at the awful hour of 4:45 
a&m&. I had planned to go to the hotel by taxi and sleep a little, 
after which Mr& Uno would arrive and pilot me around. But there 
he was at the train with an Oregon State pennant in his hand.

I know now why the students insisted that I go to Hiroshima even 
when I told them I didn't want to. They knew that I was still grieving 
over the tragic event, and they felt that if I could see the 
recovery 
and the spirit of the people, who hold no grudge, but who also 
regret Pearl Harbor, I would be happier and would understand better 
a new Japan. There were no words to say this but there was no need.

The teachers of Mr& Uno's school gave me a small gift 
to thank me for coming. Hiroshima is a better city than it was before- 
in the minds of the people I met was a strong determination for peace 
and understanding. I was grateful for their insight into my need 
for this experience. A better world may yet come out of Hiroshima. 

#TOKYO#

On arriving in Tokyo later we were met by Masu who took 
us immediately to her university, the Japanese Women's University. 
This day was "Open House for Parents" day, and the girls were 
busy preparing exhibits and arranging tea tables. Everything was in 
an exciting turmoil- full of anticipation and fun.   It was 
thrilling to see the effect of an American-trained teacher on Japanese 
students in a class in Home Planning. Our Masu is one of the very 
few architects in Japan who is trying to plan homes around family 
functions and women's needs. I am told the time will soon come when 
women will find it necessary to do most of their own work, and even now 
it is important to have conveniences for the use of servants. Many 
of the features of the homes are the latest modern devices in American 
homes, but an interesting blend of cultures finds us using Japanese 
artfulness in our own Western architecture at the same time that the 
Japanese are adopting Western utility patterns.   At this Women's 
University we find a monument to a courageous family who believed 
that Japanese women also should be educated. Even today there are 
some doubts about the value of education for Japanese women, but this 
University continues to grow and to send its students out into the 
community. Active alumnae have built a fine building on the campus 
where members can come and stay for a few days or longer and where they 
can have their social gatherings and professional meetings. As far 
as I am concerned there is continuous piling up of evidence that the 
creative fresh ideas which are needed in the world are going to be found 
by educated women unafraid to break traditions.   Masu is also 
teaching in a municipally-sponsored school for Japanese widows in Tokyo. 
Here the women learn to keep house as maids; they become skilled 
in cooking and cleaning and in receiving guests. They learn how 
to take care of children and sick members of the family. They have model 
kitchens, a sick room with a model patient in bed, and a nursery with 
a life-like doll. Although the training is only for one month, it 
is intensive and thorough. Graduates of this maid's school are much 
in demand and can always find work immediately. Occasionally they return 
for additional training. Masu's home economics training comes 
into play as she designs cupboards along modern functional lines for 
the storage of cleaning materials. Masu also uses the training she got 
in an American home where she learned to polish furniture, clean corners, 
and work effectively in keeping a shiny house. Her education in 
the United States, not just in a classroom, but also in an American 
house with an American housekeeper, stands her in good stead. 

#UNIVERSITY 
OF TOKYO#

After a fine luncheon in the cafeteria, the kitchen 
of which Masu had planned, Mr& Washizu and I left to meet representatives 
of the ~USIS for a visit to the University of Tokyo. 
Here again it was vacation time and there were many things I could 
not see, but I was able to visit with a professor who is famous 
in Japanese circles and be guided through the grounds by his assistant. 
The achievement of the desegregation of certain lunch counters not only 
by wise action by local community leaders but by voluntary action following 
consultation between Attorney General Rogers and the heads 
of certain national chain stores should, of course, be applauded. But 
for it to be just to attain this same result by means of the force of 
a boycott throughout the nation would require the verification of facts 
contrary to those assumed in the foregoing case. The suppositions 
in the previous illustration might be sufficiently altered by establishing 
a connection between general company practice and local practice 
in the South, and by establishing such direct connection between the 
practice and the economic well-being of stores located in New York 
and general company policy. Then the boycott would not be secondary, 
but a primary one. It would be directed against the actual location of 
the unjust policy which, for love's sake and for the sake of justice, 
must be removed, and, indivisible from this, to the economic injury 
of the people directly and objectively a part of this policy. Perhaps 
this would be sufficient to justify an economic boycott of an entire 
national chain in order, by threatening potential injury to its entire 
economy, to effect an alteration of the policy of its local stores 
in the matter of segregation. Such a general boycott might still be a 
blunt or indiscriminating instrument, and therefore of questionable 
justification. 
Action located where the evil is concentrated will prove 
most decisive and is most clearly legitimate. Moreover, prudence alone 
would indicate that, unless the local customs are already ready to 
fall when pushed, the results of direct economic action everywhere upon 
national chain stores will likely be simply to give undue advantage 
to local and state stores which conform to these customs, leading to 
greater decentralization and local autonomy within the company, or even 
(as the final self-defeat of an unjust application of economic pressure 
to correct injustice) to its going out of business in certain sections 
of the country (as, for that matter, the Quakers, who once had many 
meetings in the pre-Civil War South, largely went out of business 
in that part of the country over the slavery issue, never to recover 
a large number of southern adherents).   In any case, anyone who 
fails to make significant distinction between primary and secondary 
applications of economic pressure would in principle already have justified 
that use of economic boycott as a means which broke out a few years 
ago or was skillfully organized by White Citizens' Councils 
in the entire state of Mississippi against every local Philco dealer 
in that state, in protest against a Philco-sponsored program over a 
national ~TV network on which was presented a drama showing, it seemed, 
a "high yellow gal" smooching with a white man. It is true, 
of course, that the end or objective of this action was different. But 
since this is a world in which people disagree about ends and goals 
and concerning justice and injustice, and since, in a situation where 
direct action and economic pressure are called for, the justice of the 
matter has either not been clearly defined by law or the law is not 
effectively present, there has to be a <morality of means> applied in 
every case in which people take it upon themselves to use economic pressures 
or other forms of force.   the need that we not give unqualified 
approval to any but a limited use of economic pressure directed 
against the actual doers of injustice is clear also in light of the 
fact that White Citizens' Councils seem resolved to maintain segregation 
mainly by the use of these same means and not ordinarily by physical 
violence. An unlimited use of economic pressures for diametrically 
opposite causes could devastate the pre-conditions of any fellow 
humanity as surely as this would be destroyed by the use of more obviously 
brutal means. The end or aim of the action, of course, is also 
important, especially where it is not alone a matter of changing community 
customs but of the use of deadly economic power to intimidate a person 
from stepping forward to claim his legal rights, e&g&, against 
Negroes who register to vote in Fayette County, Tennessee, at the 
present moment. Here the recourse is in steps to give economic sustenance 
to those being despoiled, and to legal remedies. This, however, 
is sufficient to show that more or less non-violent resistance and 
economic conflict (if both sides are strong enough) can be war of all 
against all no less than if other means are used. It is also sufficient 
to show the Christian and any other champion of justice that he needs 
to make sure not only that his cause is just but also that his <conduct> 
is just, i&e&, that, if economic pressure has to be resorted 
to, this be applied directly against those persons directly in the 
way of some salutary change in business or institutional practices, while, 
if injury fall upon others, it fall upon them indirectly and secondarily 
(however inevitably) and not by deliberate intent and direct 
action against them.   It is clear that non-violent resistance is 
a mode of action in need of justification and limitation in Christian 
morality, like any other form of resistance. The <language> used 
itself often makes very clear that this is only another form of struggle 
for victory (perhaps to be chosen above all others). One of the sit-in 
leaders has said: "Nobody from the top of Heaven to the bottom 
of Hell can stop the march to freedom. Everybody in the world today 
might as well make up their minds to march with freedom or freedom 
is going to march over them". The present writer certainly agrees 
with that statement, and would also affirm this- in the order of justice. 
However, it is also a Christian insight to know that unless charity 
interpenetrates justice it is not likely to be freedom that marches 
forward. And when charity interpenetrates man's struggle for justice 
and freedom it does not simply surround this with a sentimental 
good will. It also definitely fashions conduct in the way explained 
above, and this means far more than in the choice of non-violent 
means. 
R& B& Gregg has written that "non-violence and good will of 
the victim act like the lack of physical opposition by the user of physical 
jiu-jitsu, to cause the attacker to lose his moral balance. He 
suddenly and unexpectedly loses the moral support which the usual violent 
resistance of most victims would render him"; and again, that 
"the object of non-violent resistance is partly analogous to this object 
of war- namely, to demoralize the opponent, to break his will, 
to destroy his confidence, enthusiasm, and hope. In another respect 
it is dissimilar, for non-violent resistance demoralizes the opponent 
only to re-establish in him a new morale that is firmer because it is 
based on sounder values".   A trial of strength, however, is made 
quite inevitable by virtue of the fact that anyone engaging in non-violent 
resistance will be convinced that his action is based on sounder 
values than those of his opponent; and in warfare with any means, 
men commonly disagree over the justice of the cause. This makes necessary 
a morality of means, and principles governing the <conduct> of 
resistance whenever this is thought to be justified. The question, 
then, is whether sufficient discrimination in the use of even non-violent 
means of coercion is to be found in the fact that such conduct demoralizes 
and overcomes the opponent while re-moralizing and re-establishing 
him. Here it is relevant to remember that men commonly regard some 
causes as more important than their lives; and to them it will seem 
insignificant that it is proposed to defeat such causes non-violently. 
A technique by which it is proposed to enter with compulsion into 
the very heart of a man and determine his values may often in fact seem 
the more unlimited aggression.   Among Christian groups, the 
Mennonites have commonly been aware more than others of the fact that 
the nature of divine charity raises decisively the question of the 
Christian use of all forms of pressure. Since the will and word of God 
are for them concentrated in Christlike love, it seems clear to them 
that non-violent resistance is quite another thing. "The primary 
objective of non-violence", writes the outstanding Mennonite ethicist, 
"is not peace, or obedience to the divine will, but rather certain 
desired social changes, for personal, or class, or national advantage". 
Without agreeing with every phrase in this statement, we must 
certainly assert the great difference between Christian love and any 
form of resistance, and then go on beyond the Mennonite position and 
affirm that Christian love-in-action must first justify and then determine 
the moral principles limiting resistance. These principles we 
have now set forth. <Economy> in the use of power needs not only to 
be asserted, but clearly specified; and when this is done it will 
be found that the principles governing Christian resistance cut across 
the distinction between violent and non-violent means, and apply to 
both alike, justifying either on occasion and always limiting either action. 
Economy in the use of power means more than inflicting a 
<barely 
intolerable> pressure upon an opponent and upon the injustice opposed. 
That would amount to calculating the means and justifying them wholly 
in terms of their effectiveness in reaching desired goals. There 
must also be additional and more fundamental discrimination in the use 
of means of resistance, violent or non-violent. The justification 
in Christian conscience of the use of any mode of resistance also lays 
down its limitation- in the distinction between the persons against 
whom pressure is primarily directed, those upon whom it may be permitted 
also to fall, and those who may never be directly repressed for the 
sake even of achieving some great good. In these terms, the "economic 
withdrawal" of the Negroes of Nashville, Tennessee, from trading 
in the center city, for example, was clearly justified, since these 
distinctions do not require that only people subjectively guilty be 
singled out.   We may now take up for consideration a hard case 
which seems to require either no action employing economic pressure 
or else action that would seem to violate the principles set forth above. 
There may be instances in which, if economic pressure is to be undertaken 
at all, this would have to be applied without discrimination 
against a whole people. An excellent article was published recently in 
the journal of the Church Peace Union by a South African journalist 
on the inhuman economic conditions of the blacks in South Africa, 
amounting to virtual slavery, and the economic <complicity> of both 
the government and the people of the United States in these conditions. 
"**h Billions of American dollars, not only from capital investors 
but also from the pockets of U& S& taxpayers", this author 
states, "are being poured into South Africa to support a system 
dedicated to the oppression, the persecution, and the almost diabolical 
exploitation of 12 million people the color of whose skins happens 
not to be white". Both the conditions and the complicity are documented 
in considerable detail. This leads to the conclusion that "the 
fact is inescapable that America does have a say in whether or not 
<apartheid> shall continue". Our leadership in a wide economic 
boycott of South Africa would be not only in accord, it seems, with 
the moral conscience of America, not to be denied because we also as 
a people have widespread injustice in the relations of the races in our 
own country, but also in accord with our law, U&S& Code Title 
19, Section 1307, which forbids the importation of goods made by forced 
or convict labor. Not only should this provision be enforced but 
other economic and political actions might be taken which, this author 
believes, "must surely be supported by every American who values the 
freedom that has been won for him and whose conscience is not so dominated 
by the lines in his account books that he can willingly and knowingly 
contribute to the enslavement of another nation".

NORTHERN liberals are the chief supporters of civil rights 
and of integration. They have also led the nation in the direction 
of a welfare state. And both in their objectives of non-discrimination 
and of social progress they have had ranged against them the Southerners 
who are called Bourbons. The name presumably derives from the 
French royal house which never learned and never forgot; since Bourbon 
whiskey, though of Kentucky origin, is at least as much favored 
by liberals in the North as by conservatives in the South.   The 
nature of the opposition between liberals and Bourbons is too little 
understood in the North. The race problem has tended to obscure other, 
less emotional, issues which may fundamentally be even more divisive. 
It is these other differences between North and South- other, 
that is, than those which concern discrimination or social welfare- 
which I chiefly discuss herein.   I write about Northern liberals 
from considerable personal experience. A Southerner married to 
a New Englander, I have lived for many years in a Connecticut commuting 
town with a high percentage of artists, writers, publicity men, 
and business executives of egghead tastes. Most of them are Democrats 
and nearly all consider themselves, and are viewed as, liberals. This 
is puzzling to an outsider conscious of the classic tradition of 
liberalism, because it is clear that these Democrats who are left-of-center 
are at opposite poles from the liberal Jefferson, who held that 
the best government was the least government. Yet paradoxically my 
liberal 
friends continue to view Jefferson as one of their patron saints. 
When I question them as to what they mean by concepts like liberty and 
democracy, I find that they fall into two categories: the simpler 
ones who have simply accepted the shibboleths of their faith without 
analysis; and the intelligent, cynical ones who scornfully reply that 
these things don't count any more in the world of to-day. I am naive, 
they say, to make use of such words.   I take this to mean 
that the intelligent- and therefore necessarily cynical?- liberal 
considers that the need for a national economy with controls that will 
assure his conception of social justice is so great that individual 
and local liberties as well as democratic processes may have to yield 
before it. This seems like an attitude favoring a sort of totalitarian 
bureaucracy which, under a President of the same stamp, would try 
to coerce an uncooperative Congress or Supreme Court. As for states' 
rights, they have never counted in the thinking of my liberal friends 
except as irritations of a minor and immoral nature which exist 
now only as anachronisms.   The American liberal may, in the world 
of to-day, have a strong case; but he presents it publicly so enmeshed 
in hypocrisy that it is not an honest one. Why, in the first place, 
call himself a liberal if he is against <laissez-faire> and favors 
an authoritarian central government with womb-to-tomb controls over 
everybody? If he attaches little importance to personal liberty, 
why not make this known to the world? And if he is so scornful of 
the rights of states, why not advocate a different sort of constitution 
that he could more sincerely support?   I am concerned here, 
however, with the Northern liberal's attitude toward the South. It 
appears to be one of intense dislike, which he makes little effort 
to conceal even in the presence of Southern friends. His assumption 
seems to be that any such friends, being tolerable humans, must be more 
liberal than most Southerners and therefore at least partly in sympathy 
with his views. <Time's> editor, Thomas Griffith, in his book, 
<The Waist-High Culture>, wrote: "**h most of what was 
different about it (the Deep South) I found myself unsympathetic to 
**h". This, for the liberals I know, would be an understatement. 
Theirs is no mere lack of sympathy, but something closer to the passionate 
hatred that was directed against Fascism.   I do not think 
that my experience would be typical for Southerners living in the 
North. In business circles, usually conservative, this sort of atmosphere 
would hardly be found. But in our case- and neither my wife nor 
I have extreme views on integration, nor are we given to emotional 
outbursts- the situation has ruined one or two valued friendships and 
come close to wrecking several more. In fact it has caused us to give 
serious thought to moving our residence south, because it is not easy 
for the most objective Southerner to sit calmly by when his host 
is telling a roomful of people that the only way to deal with Southerners 
who oppose integration is to send in troops and shoot the bastards 
down.   Accounts have been published of Northern liberals in 
the South up against segregationist prejudice, especially in state-supported 
universities where pressure may be strong to uphold the majority 
view. But these accounts do not show that Northerners have been subjected 
to embarrassment or provocation by Yankee-hatred displayed in 
social gatherings. From my wife's experience and other sources, this 
seems to be rarely encountered in educated circles. The strong feeling 
is certainly there; but there is a leavening of liberalism among 
college graduates throughout the South, especially among those who 
studied in the North. And social relations arising out of business 
ties impose courtesy, if not sympathy, toward resident and visiting Northerners. 
Also, among the latter a large percentage soon acquire the 
prevalent Southern attitude on most social problems.   There 
are of course many Souths; but for this discussion the most important 
division is between those who have been reconstructed and those who 
haven't. My definition of this much abused adjective is that a reconstructed 
rebel is one who is glad that the North won the War. Nobody 
knows how many Southerners there are in this category. I suspect 
that there are far more unreconstructed ones than the North likes to 
believe. I never heard of a poll being taken on the question. No doubt 
such a thing would be considered unpatriotic. Prior to 1954 I imagine 
that a majority of Southerners would have voted against the Confederacy. 
Since the Supreme Court's decision of that year this is 
more doubtful; and if a poll had been taken immediately following 
the dispatch of troops to Little Rock I believe the majority would 
have been for the Old South.   Belief in the traditional way of 
life persists much more in the older states than in the new ones. Probably 
a larger percentage of Virginians and South Carolinians remain 
unreconstructed than elsewhere, with Georgia, North Carolina, and 
Alabama following along after them. Old attitudes are held more tenaciously 
in the Tidewater than the Piedmont; so that a line running 
down the length of the South marking the upper limits of tidewater 
would roughly divide the Old South from the new, but with, of course, 
important minority enclaves.   The long-settled areas of states 
like Virginia and South Carolina developed the ante-bellum culture 
to its richest flowering, and there the memory is more precious, and 
the consciousness of loss the greater. Also, we should not even to-day 
discount the fact that a region such as the coastal lowlands centering 
on Charleston had closer ties with England and the West Indies 
than with the North even after independence. The social and psychological 
consequences of this continue to affect the area. In certain 
respects defeat increased the persistent Anglophilia of the Old South. 
Poor where they had once been rich, humbled where they had been 
arrogant, having no longer any hope of sharing in the leadership of the 
nation, the rebels who would not surrender in spirit drew comfort from 
the sympathy they felt extended to them by the mother country. And 
no doubt many people in states like the Carolinas and Georgia, which 
were among the most Tory in sentiment in the eighteenth century, bitterly 
regretted the revolt against the Crown.   Among Bourbons 
the racial issue may have less to do with their remaining unreconstructed 
than other factors. All Southerners agree that slavery had to 
go; but many historians maintain that except for Northern meddling 
it would have ended in states like Virginia years before it did. Southern 
resentment has been over the method of its ending, the invasion, 
and Reconstruction; their fears now are of miscegenation and Negro 
political control in many counties. But apart from racial problems, 
the old unreconstructed South- to use the moderate words favored by 
Mr& Thomas Griffith- finds itself unsympathetic to most of what 
is different about the civilization of the North. And this, in effect, 
means most of modern America.   It is hard to see how the 
situation could be otherwise. And therein, I feel, many Northerners 
delude themselves about the South. For one thing, this is not a subject 
often discussed or analyzed. There seems to be almost a conspiracy 
of silence veiling it. I suppose the reason is a kind of wishful 
thinking: don't talk about the final stages of Reconstruction and 
they will take care of themselves. Or else the North really believes 
that all Southerners except a few quaint old characters have come 
around to realizing the errors of their past, and are now at heart sharers 
of the American Dream, like everybody else.   If the circumstances 
are faced frankly it is not reasonable to expect this to be 
true. The situation of the South since 1865 has been unique in the western 
world. Regardless of rights and wrongs, a population and an area 
appropriate to a pre-World-War-/1, great power have been, following 
conquest, 
ruled against their will by a neighboring people, and have had 
imposed upon them social and economic controls they dislike. And the 
great majority of these people are of Anglo-Saxon or Celtic descent. 
This is the only case in modern history of a people of Britannic 
origin submitting without continued struggle to what they view as foreign 
domination. The fact is due mainly to international wars, both hot 
and cold. In every war of the United States since the Civil War 
the South was more belligerent than the rest of the country. So instead 
of being tests of the South's loyalty, the Spanish War, the 
two World Wars, and the Korean War all served to overcome old grievances 
and cement reunion. And there is no section of the nation more 
ardent than the South in the cold war against Communism. Had the 
situation been reversed, had, for instance, England been the enemy in 
1898 because of issues of concern chiefly to New England, there is 
little doubt that large numbers of Southerners would have happily put 
on their old Confederate uniforms to fight as allies of Britain. It 
is extraordinary that a people as proud and warlike as Southerners 
should have been as docile as they have. The North should thank its 
stars that such has been the case; but at the same time it should not 
draw false inferences therefrom.   The two main charges levelled 
against the Bourbons by liberals is that they are racists and social 
reactionaries. There is much truth in both these charges, and not 
many Bourbons deny them. Whatever their faults, they are not hypocrites. 
Most of them sincerely believe that the Anglo-Saxon is the best 
race in the world and that it should remain pure. Many Northeners 
believe this, too, but few of them will say so publicly. The Bourbon 
economic philosophy, moreover, is not very different from that of Northern 
conservatives. But those among the Bourbons who remain unreconstructed 
go much further than this. They believe that if the South 
had been let alone it would have produced a civilization superior to that 
of modern America. As it is, they consider that the North is now 
reaping the fruits of excess egalitarianism, that in spite of its high 
standard of living the "American way" has been proved inferior 
to the English and Scandinavian ways, although they disapprove of the 
socialistic features of the latter.   The South's antipathy 
to Northern civilization includes such charges as poor manners, harsh 
accents, lack of appreciation of the arts of living like gastronomy 
and the use of leisure. Their own easier, slower tempo is especially 
dear to Southerners; and I have heard many say that they are content 
to earn a half or a third as much as they could up North because 
they so much prefer the quieter habits of their home town.

In the past, the duties of the state, as Sir Henry Maine noted 
long ago, were only two in number: internal order and external security. 
By prevailing over other claimants for the loyalties of men, 
the nation-state maintained an adequate measure of certainty and order 
within its territorial borders. Outside those limits it asserted, as 
against other states, a position of sovereign equality, and, as against 
the "inferior" peoples of the non-Western world, a position of 
dominance. It became the sole "subject" of "international law" 
(a term which, it is pertinent to remember, was coined by Bentham), 
a body of legal principle which by and large was made up of what Western 
nations could do in the world arena. (That corpus of law was a 
reflection of the power system in existence during the eighteenth and 
nineteenth centuries. Speaking generally, it furthered- and still 
tends to further- the interests of the Western powers. The enormous 
changes in world politics have, however, thrown it into confusion, so 
much so that it is safe to say that all international law is now in 
need of reexamination and clarification in light of the social conditions 
of the present era.)   Beyond the two basic tasks mentioned 
above, no attention was paid by statesman or scholar to an idea of state 
responsibility, either internally or externally. This was particularly 
true in the world arena, which was an anarchical battleground characterized 
by strife and avaricious competition for colonial empires. 
That any sort of duty was owed by his nation to other nations would have 
astonished a nineteenth-century statesman. His duty was to his sovereign 
and to his nation, and an extension to peoples beyond the territorial 
boundaries was not to be contemplated. Thus, to cite but one 
example, the <Pax Britannica> of the nineteenth century, whether with 
the British navy ruling the seas or with the City of London ruling 
world finance, was strictly national in motivation, however much other 
nations (e&g&, the United States) may have incidentally benefited. 
At the same time, all suggestions that some sort of societal 
responsibility existed for the welfare of the people within the territorial 
state was strongly resisted. Social Darwinism was able to stave 
off the incipient socialist movement until well into the present century.

However, in recent decades, for what doubtless are multiple 
reasons, an unannounced but nonetheless readily observable shift has 
occurred in both facets of national activity. A concept of responsibility 
is in process of articulation and establishment. Already firmly 
implanted internally, it is a growing factor in external matters. 
##

A little more than twenty years ago the American people turned 
an important corner. In what has aptly been called a "constitutional 
revolution", the basic nature of government was transformed from 
one essentially negative in nature (the "night-watchman state") to 
one with affirmative duties to perform. The "positive state" came 
into existence. For lawyers, reflecting perhaps their parochial preferences, 
there has been a special fascination since then in the role 
played by the Supreme Court in that transformation- the manner in 
which its decisions altered in "the switch in time that saved nine", 
President Roosevelt's ill-starred but in effect victorious "Court-packing 
plan", the imprimatur of judicial approval that was 
finally placed upon social legislation. Of greater importance, however, 
is the content of those programs, which have had and are having enormous 
consequences for the American people. Labor relations have been 
transformed, income security has become a standardized feature of political 
platforms, and all the many facets of the American version of 
the welfare state have become part of the conventional wisdom. A national 
consensus of near unanimity exists that these governmental efforts 
are desirable as well as necessary. Ratified in the Republican Party 
victory in 1952, the Positive State is now evidenced by political 
campaigns being waged not on <whether> but on <how much> social 
legislation there should be.   The general acceptance of the idea 
of governmental (i&e&, societal) responsibility for the economic 
well-being of the American people is surely one of the two most significant 
watersheds in American constitutional history. The other, of 
course, was the Civil War, the conflict which a century ago insured 
national unity over fragmentation. A third, one of at least equal and 
perhaps even greater importance, is now being traversed: American 
immersion and involvement in world affairs.   Internal national 
responsibility, now a truism, need not be documented. Nevertheless, 
it may be helpful to cite one example- that of employment- for, as 
will be shown below, it cuts across both facets of the new concept. Thirty 
years ago, while the nation was wallowing in economic depression, 
the prevailing philosophy of government was to stand aside and allow 
"natural forces" to operate and cure the distress. That guiding 
principle of the Hoover Administration fell to the siege guns of the 
New Deal; less than a score of years later Congress enacted the 
Employment Act of 1946, by which the national government assumed the 
responsibility of taking action to insure conditions of maximum employment. 
Hands-off the economy was replaced by conscious guidance through 
planning- the economic side of the constitutional revolution. In 
1961 the first important legislative victory of the Kennedy Administration 
came when the principle of <national> responsibility for <local> 
economic distress won out over a "state's-responsibility" 
proposal- provision was made for payment for unemployment relief 
by nation-wide taxation rather than by a levy only on those states afflicted 
with manpower surplus. The American people have indeed come 
a long way in the brief interval between 1930 and 1961.   Internal 
national responsibility is a societal response to the impact of the 
Industrial Revolution. Reduced to its simplest terms, it is an assumption 
of a collective duty to compensate for the inability of individuals 
to cope with the rigors of the era. National responsibility for 
individual welfare is a concept not limited to the United States or 
even to the Western nations. A measure of its widespread acceptance 
may be derived from a statement of the International Congress of Jurists 
in 1959. Meeting in New Delhi under the auspices of the International 
Commission of Jurists, a body of lawyers from the free world, 
the Congress redefined and expanded the traditional Rule of Law 
to include affirmative governmental duties. It is noteworthy that 
the majority of the delegates to the Congress were from the less developed, 
former colonial nations. The Rule of Law, historically a principle 
according everyone his "day in court" before an impartial tribunal, 
was broadened substantively by making it a responsibility of 
government to promote individual welfare. Recognizing that the Rule 
of Law is "a dynamic concept **h which should be employed not only 
to safeguard the civil and political rights of the individual in a free 
society", the Congress asserted that it also included the responsibility 
"to establish social, economic, educational and cultural conditions 
under which his legitimate aspirations and dignity may be realized". 
The idea of national responsibility thus has become a common 
feature of the nations of the non-Soviet world. For better or for worse, 
we all now live in welfare states, the organizing principle of which 
is collective responsibility for individual well-being.   Whether 
a concept analogous to the principle of internal responsibility 
operates in a nation's external relations is less obvious and more 
difficult to establish. The hypothesis ventured here is that it does, 
and that evidence is accumulating validating that proposition. The content 
is not the same, however: rather than individual security, it 
is the security and continuing existence of an "ideological group"- 
those in the "free world"- that is basic. External national 
responsibility involves a burgeoning requirement that the leaders of 
the Western nations so guide their decisions as to further the viability 
of other friendly nations. If internal responsibility suggests acceptance 
of the socialist ideal of equality, then external responsibility 
implies adherence to principles of ideological supranationalism.

Reference to two other concepts- nationalism and sovereignty- 
may help to reveal the contours of the new principle. In its beginnings 
the nation-state had to struggle to assert itself- internally, 
against feudal groups, and externally, against the power and influence 
of such other claimants for loyalty as the Church. The breakup of 
the Holy Roman Empire and the downfall of feudalism led, not more 
than two centuries ago, to the surge of nationalism. (Since the time-span 
of the nation-state coincides roughly with the separate existence 
of the United States as an independent entity, it is perhaps natural 
for Americans to think of the nation as representative of the highest 
form of order, something permanent and unchanging.) The concept of 
nationalism is the political principle that epitomizes and glorifies 
the territorial state as the characteristic type of socal structure. But 
it is more than that. For it includes the emotional ties that bind 
men to their homeland and the complex motivations that hold a large 
group of people together as a unit. Today, as new nations rise from 
the former colonial empires, nationalism is one of the hurricane forces 
loose in the world. Almost febrile in intensity, the principle has 
become worldwide in application- unfortunately at the very time that 
nationalist fervors can wreak greatest harm. Historically, however, 
the concept is one that has been of marked benefit to the people of the 
Western civilizational group. By subduing disparate lesser groups 
the nation has, to some degree at least, broadened the capacity for individual 
liberty. Within their confines, moreover, technological and 
industrial growth has proceeded at an accelerated pace, thus increasing 
the cornucopia from which material wants can be satisfied. While the 
pattern is uneven, some having gained more than others, nationalism 
has in fact served the Western peoples well. (Whether historical nationalism 
helped the peoples of the remainder of the world, and whether 
today's nationalism in the former colonial areas has equally beneficial 
aspects, are other questions.)   It is one of the ironic quirks 
of history that the viability and usefulness of nationalism and the 
territorial state are rapidly dissipating at precisely the time that 
the nation-state attained its highest number (approximately 100). But 
it is more than irony: one of the main reasons why nationalism is 
no longer a tenable concept is <because> it has spread throughout the 
planet. In other words, nationalism worked well enough when it had 
limited application, both as to geography and as to population; it 
becomes a perilous anachronism when adopted on a world-wide basis.

Complementing the political principle of nationalism is the legal 
principle of sovereignty. The former receives its legitimacy from the 
latter. Operating side by side, together they helped shore up the nation-state. 
While sovereignty has roots in antiquity, in its present 
usage it is essentially modern. Jean Bodin, writing in the sixteenth 
century, may have been the seminal thinker, but it was the vastly influential 
John Austin who set out the main lines of the concept as now 
understood. Austin's nineteenth-century view of law and sovereignty 
still dominates much of today's legal and political thinking. To 
him, law is the command of the sovereign (the English monarch) who 
personifies the power of the nation, while sovereignty is the power to 
make law- i&e&, to prevail over internal groups and to be free 
from the commands of other sovereigns in other nations. These fundamental 
ideas- the indivisibility of sovereignty and its dual (internal-external) 
aspects- still remain the core of that concept of ultimate 
political power.   The nation-state, then, exemplifies the principle 
of nationalism and exercises sovereignty: supreme power over 
domestic affairs and independence from outside control. In fact, however, 
both principles have always been nebulous and loosely defined. High-level 
abstractions are always difficult to pin down with precision. 
That is particularly true of sovereignty when it is applied to democratic 
societies, in which "popular" sovereignty is said to exist, 
and in federal nations, in which the jobs of government are split. Nevertheless, 
nationalism and sovereignty are reputed, in the accepted 
wisdom, to describe the modern world. Is there a different reality behind 
the facade? Does the surface hide a quite different picture?

The short answer to those questions is "yes". Both concepts 
are undergoing alteration; to some degree they are being supplanted 
by a concept of national responsibility. As evidence to support 
that view, consider the following illustrative instances. 
Can thermonuclear war be set off by accident? What steps have been 
taken to guard against the one sort of mishap that could trigger the 
destruction of continents? Are we as safe as we should be from such 
a disaster? Is anything being done to increase our margin of safety? 
Will the danger increase or decrease?   I have just asked 
these questions in the Pentagon, in the White House, in offices of 
key scientists across the country and aboard the submarines that prowl 
for months underwater, with neat rows of green launch tubes which contain 
Polaris missiles and which are affectionately known as "Sherwood 
Forest". I asked the same questions inside the launch-control 
rooms of an Atlas missile base in Wyoming, where officers who wear 
sidearms are manning the "commit buttons" that could start a war- 
accidentally or by design- and in the command centers where other 
pistol-packing men could give orders to push such buttons.   To 
the men in the instrument-jammed bomber cockpits, submarine compartments 
and the antiseptic, windowless rooms that would be the foxholes of 
tomorrow's impersonal intercontinental wars, the questions seem farfetched. 
There is unceasing pressure, but its sources are immediate. 
"Readiness exercises" are almost continuous. Each could be the real 
thing.   In the command centers there are special clocks ready 
to tick off the minutes elapsed since "~E hour". "~E" 
stands for "execution"- the moment a "go order" would unleash 
an American nuclear strike. There is little time for the men in the 
command centers to reflect about the implications of these clocks. 
They are preoccupied riding herd on control panels, switches, flashing 
colored lights on pale green or gray consoles that look like business 
machines. They know little about their machinery beyond mechanical 
details. Accidental war is so sensitive a subject that most of the people 
who could become directly involved in one are told just enough so 
they can perform their portions of incredibly complex tasks.   Among 
the policy makers, generals, physicists, psychologists and others 
charged with controlling the actions of the button pushers and their 
"hardware", the answers to my questions varied partly according to 
a man's flair for what the professionals in this field call "scenarios". 
As an Air Force psychiatrist put it: "You can't have 
dry runs on this one". The experts are thus forced to hypothesize 
sequences of events that have never occurred, probably never will- 
but possibly might. Only one rule prevailed in my conversations with 
these men: The more highly placed they are- that is, the more they 
know- the more concerned they have become.   Already accidental 
war is a silent guest at the discussions within the Kennedy Administration 
about the urgency of disarmament and nearly all other questions 
of national security. Only recently new "holes" were 
discovered in our safety measures, and a search is now on for more. Work 
is under way to see whether new restraining devices should be installed 
on all nuclear weapons.   Meanwhile, the experts speak of 
wars triggered by "false pre-emption", "escalation", "unauthorized 
behavior" and other terms that will be discussed in this report. 
They inhabit a secret world centered on "go codes" and "gold 
phones". Their conversations were, almost invariably, accompanied 
by the same gestures- arms and pointed forefingers darting toward 
each other in arclike semicircular motions. One arm represented our bombers 
and missiles, the other arm "theirs". Yet implicit in each 
movement was the death of millions, perhaps hundreds of millions, perhaps 
you and me- and the experts.   These men are not callous. 
It is their job to think about the unthinkable. Unanimously they believe 
that the world would become a safer place if more of us- and more 
Russians and Communist Chinese, too- thought about accidental 
war.   The first systematic thinking about this Pandora's box 
within Pandora's boxes was done four years ago by Fred Ikle, a 
frail, meek-mannered Swiss-born sociologist. He was, and is, with the 
~RAND Corporation, a nonprofit pool of thinkers financed by the 
U& S& Air Force. His investigations made him the Paul Revere 
of accidental war, and safety procedures were enormously increased.

In recent weeks, as a result of a sweeping defense policy reappraisal 
by the Kennedy Administration, basic United States strategy 
has been modified- and large new sums allocated- to meet the accidental-war 
danger and to reduce it as quickly as possible.   The 
chain starts at ~BMEWS (Ballistic Missile Early Warning 
System) in Thule, Greenland. Its radar screens would register Soviet 
missiles shortly after they are launched against the United States. 
~BMEWS intelligence is simultaneously flashed to ~NORAD 
(North American Air Defense Command) in Colorado Springs, 
Colorado, for interpretation; to the ~SAC command and control 
post, forty-five feet below the ground at Offutt Air Force Base, near 
Omaha, Nebraska; to the Joint War Room of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff in the Pentagon and to the President.   Telephones, 
Teletypes, several kinds of radio systems and, in some cases, television, 
link all vital points. Alternate locations exist for all key command 
centers. For last-ditch emergencies ~SAC has alternate command 
posts on ~KC-135 jet tankers. Multiple circuits, routings and 
frequencies make the chain as unbreakable as possible.   The 
same principle of "redundancy" applies to all communications on these 
special networks. And no messages can be transmitted on these circuits 
until senders and receivers authenticate in advance, by special 
codes, 
that the messages actually come from their purported sources. Additional 
codes can be used to challenge and counterchallenge the authentications.

Only the President is permitted to authorize the 
use of nuclear weapons. That's the law. But what if somebody decides 
to break it? The President cannot personally remove the safety 
devices from every nuclear trigger. He makes the momentous decision. 
Hundreds of men are required to pass the word to the button pushers 
and to push the buttons. What if one or more of them turn irrational 
or suddenly, coolly, decide to clobber the Russians? What if the President 
himself, in the language of the military, "goes ape"? 
Or singlehandedly decided to reverse national policy and hit the Soviets 
without provocation?   Nobody can be absolutely certain of 
the answers. However, the system is designed, ingeniously and hopefully, 
so that no one man could initiate a thermonuclear war.   Even 
the President cannot pick up his telephone and give a "go" order. 
Even he does not know the one signal for a nuclear strike- the 
"go code". In an emergency he would receive available intelligence 
on the "gold-phone circuit". A system of "gold"- actually 
yellow- phones connects him with the offices and action stations of 
the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the ~SAC 
commander and other key men. All can be connected with the gold circuit 
from their homes. All could help the President make his decision. 
The talk would not be in code, but neither would it ramble. Vital 
questions would be quickly answered according to a preprepared agenda. 
Officers who participate in the continual practice drills assured 
me that the President's decision could be made and announced on the 
gold circuit within minutes after the first flash from ~BMEWS.

If communications work, his decision would be instantly known 
in all command posts that would originate the actual go order. For 
these centers, too, are on the gold circuit. They include the Navy's 
Atlantic Command at Norfolk, Virginia, which is in contact with 
the Polaris subs; ~NATO headquarters in Europe; Air Force 
forward headquarters in Europe and in the Pacific, which control 
tactical fighters on ships and land bases; and ~SAC, which controls 
long-range bombers and Atlas missiles.   Let us look in on 
one of these nerve centers- ~SAC at Omaha- and see what must 
still happen before a wing of ~B-52 bombers could drop their ~H-bombs.

In a word, plenty. The key man almost certainly would 
be Col& William W& Wisman, ~SAC's senior controller. He 
or his deputy or one of their seven assistants, all full colonels, 
mans the heart of the command post twenty-four hours a day. It is a quiet 
but impressive room- 140 feet long, thirty-nine feet wide, twenty-one 
feet high. Movable panels of floor-to-ceiling maps and charts 
are crammed with intelligence information. And Bill Wisman, forty-three, 
a farmer's son from Beallsville, Ohio, is a quiet but impressive 
man. His eyes are steady anchors of the deepest brown. His movements 
and speech are precise, clear and quick. No question ruffles him 
or causes him to hesitate.   Wisman, who has had the chief controller's 
job for four years, calls the signals for a team operating 
three rows of dull-gray consoles studded with lights, switches and buttons. 
At least a dozen men, some armed, are never far away from him. 
In front of him is a gold phone. In emergencies the ~SAC commander, 
Gen& Thomas Power, or his deputies and their staff would occupy 
a balcony that stretches across the length of the room above Wisman 
and his staff. At General Power's seat in the balcony there is 
also a gold phone. General Power would participate in the decision 
making. Wisman, below, would listen in and act. His consoles can give 
him instant contact with more than seventy bases around the world and 
with every ~SAC aircraft.   He need only pick up one of 
the two red telephone receivers at his extreme left, right next to the 
big red button marked ALERT. (There are two receivers in case 
one should be dropped and damaged.)   But Wisman, too, does not 
know the go code. He must take it from "the red box". In point 
of fact, this is a beige box with a bright red door, about one and a half 
feet square and hung from the wall about six feet from the door to 
Wisman's right. The box is internally wired so the door can never 
be opened without setting off a screeching klaxon ("It's real obnoxious").

Now we must become vague, for we are approaching 
one of the nation's most guarded secrets. The codes in the red box- 
there are several of them covering various contingencies- are contained 
in a sealed ~X-ray-proof "unique device". They are supplied, 
a batch at a time, by a secret source and are continually changed 
by Wisman or his staff, at random intervals.   But even the contents 
of Wisman's box cannot start a war. They are mere fragments, 
just one portion of preprepared messages. What these fragments are 
and how they activate the go order may not be revealed. The pieces must 
be placed in the context of the prepared messages by Wisman's staff. 
In addition to the authentication and acknowledgment procedures 
which precede and follow the sending of the go messages, again in special 
codes, each message also contains an "internal authenticator", 
another specific signal to convince the recipient that he is getting 
the real thing.   I asked Wisman what would happen if he broke 
out the go codes and tried to start transmitting one. "I'd wind 
up full of .38 bullet holes", he said, and there was no question that 
he was talking about bullets fired by his coworkers.   Now let 
us imagine a wing of ~B-52's, on alert near their "positive control 
(or fail-safe) points", the spots on the map, many miles from 
Soviet territory, beyond which they are forbidden to fly without specific 
orders to proceed to their targets. They, too, have fragments of 
the go code with them. As Wisman put it, "They have separate pieces 
of the pie, and we have the whole pie. Once we send out the whole 
pie, they can put their pieces into it. Unless we send out the whole 
pie, their pieces mean nothing". Why does Wisman's ever-changing 
code always mesh with the fragments in possession of the button pushers? 
The answer is a cryptographic secret. At any rate, three 
men out of a six-man ~B-52 crew are required to copy down Wisman's 
go-to-war message. Each must match Wisman's "pie" with the 
fragment that he carries with him. All three must compare notes and agree 
to "go". ##

After that, it requires several minutes of concentrated 
work, including six separate and deliberate actions by a minimum 
of three men sitting at three separate stations in a bomber, each 
with another man beside him to help, for an armed bomb to be released. 
Unless all gadgets are properly operated- and the wires and seals 
from the handles removed first- no damage can be done.

Suddenly, however, their posture changed and the game ended. They 
went as rigid as black statuary **h six figures, lean and tall and 
angular, went still. Their heads were in the air sniffing. They all 
swung at the same instant in the same direction. They saw it before 
I did, even with my binoculars. It was nothing more than a tiny distant 
rain squall, a dull gray sheet which reached from a layer of clouds 
to the earth. In the 360 degrees of horizon it obscured only a degree, 
no more. A white man would not have seen it. The aborigines fastened 
upon it with a concentration beyond pathos. Watching, they waited 
until the squall thickened and began to move in a long drifting slant 
across the dry burning land. At once the whole band set off at a lope. 
They were chasing a rain cloud.   They went after the squall 
as mercilessly as a wolf pack after an abandoned cow. I followed them 
in the jeep and now they did not care. The games were over, this 
was life. Occasionally, for no reason that I could see, they would suddenly 
alter the angle of their trot. Sometimes I guessed it was because 
the rain squall had changed direction. Sometimes it was to skirt 
a gulley. Their gait is impossible to convey in words. It has nothing 
of the proud stride of the trained runner about it, it is not a lope, 
it is not done with style or verve. It is the gait of the human who 
must run to live: arms dangling, legs barely swinging over the ground, 
head hung down and only occasionally swinging up to see the target, 
a loose motion that is just short of stumbling and yet is wonderfully 
graceful. It is a barely controlled skimming of the ground.

They ran for three hours. Finally, avoiding hummocks and seeking low 
ground, they intercepted the rain squall. For ten minutes they ran 
beneath the squall, raising their arms and, for the first time, shouting 
and capering. Then the wind died and the rain squall held steady. 
They were studying the ground. Suddenly one of them shouted, ran a 
few feet, bent forward and put his mouth to the ground. He had found 
a depression with rain water in it. He bent down, a black cranelike figure, 
and put his mouth to the ground.   With a lordly and generous 
gesture, 
the discoverer stood up and beckoned to the closest of his fellows. The 
other trotted over and swooped at the tiny puddle. In an instant 
he had sucked it dry.   The aborigine lives on the cruelest land 
I have ever seen. Which does not mean that it is ugly. Part of it 
is, of course. There are thousands of square miles of salt pan which 
are hideous. They are huge areas which have been swept by winds for so 
many centuries that there is no soil left, but only deep bare ridges 
fifty or sixty yards apart with ravines between them thirty or forty 
feet deep and the only thing that moves is a scuttling layer of sand. 
Such stretches have an inhuman moonlike quality. But much of the land 
which the aborigine wanders <looks> as if it should be hospitable. 
It is softened by the saltbush and the bluebush, has a peaceful quality, 
the hills roll softly.   The malignancy of such a landscape 
has been beautifully described by the Australian Charles Bean. He 
tells of three men who started out on a trip across a single paddock, 
a ten-by-ten-mile square owned by a sheep grazer. They went well-equipped 
with everything except knowledge of the "outback" country. "

The countryside looked like a beautiful open park with gentle 
slopes and soft gray tree-clumps. Nothing appalling or horrible rushed 
upon these men. Only there happened- nothing. There might have 
been a pool of cool water behind any of these tree-clumps: only- 
there was not. It might have rained, any time; only- it did not. 
There might have been a fence or a house just over the next rise; 
only- there was not. They lay, with the birds hopping from branch 
to branch above them and the bright sky peeping down at them. No one 
came".   The white men died. And countless others like them have 
died. Even today range riders will come upon mummified bodies of 
men who attempted nothing more difficult than a twenty-mile hike and slowly 
lost direction, were tortured by the heat, driven mad by the constant 
and unfulfilled promise of the landscape, and who finally died.

The aborigine is not deceived; he knows that the land is hard 
and pitiless. He knows that the economy of life in the "outback" 
is awful. There is no room for error or waste. Any organism that falters 
or misperceives the signals or weakens is done. I do not know 
if such a way of life can come to be a self-conscious challenge, but 
I suspect that it can. Perhaps this is what gives the aborigine his 
odd air of dignity. 

#THE FAMILY AT THE BOULDER#

SEEING an aborigine 
today is a difficult thing. Many of them have drifted into the 
cities and towns and seaports. Others are confined to vast reservations, 
and not only does the Australian government justifiably not wish 
them to be viewed as exhibits in a zoo, but on their reservations they 
are extremely fugitive, shunning camps, coming together only for <corroborees> 
at which their strange culture comes to its highest pitch- 
which is very low indeed.   I persuaded an Australian friend 
who had lived "outback" for years to take me to see some aborigines 
living in the bush. It was a difficult and ambiguous kind of negotiation, 
even though the rancher was said to be expert in his knowledge 
of the aborigines and their language. Finally, however, the arrangements 
were made and we drove out into the bush in a Land Rover. We 
followed the asphalt road for a few miles and then swung off onto a 
smaller road which was nothing more than two tire marks on the earth. 
The rancher went a mile down this road and then, when he reached a big 
red boulder, swung off the road. At once he started to glance toward 
the instrument panel. It took me a moment to realize what was odd 
about that panel: there was a gimbaled compass welded to it, which rocked 
gently back and forth as the Land Rover bounced about. The rancher 
was navigating his way across the flatland.   "Do you always 
navigate like this"? I asked.   "Damned right", he 
said. "Once I get out on the flat I do. Some chaps that know an 
area well can make their way by landmarks **h a tree here, a wash here, 
a boulder there. But if you don't know the place like the palm of 
your hand, you'd better use a compass and the speedometer. Two miles 
northeast, then five miles southwest **h that sort of thing. Very 
simple".   He was right. The landscape kept repeating itself. 
I would try to memorize landmarks and saw in a half-hour that it was 
hopeless. Finally we approached the bivouac of the aborigines. They 
were camped beside a large column-shaped boulder: a man, his lubra, 
and two children. The sun was not yet high and all of them were in 
the small area 
of shade cast by the boulder.   There was also a dog, 
a dingo dog. Its ribs showed, it was a yellow nondescript color, 
it suffered from a variety of sores, hair had scabbed off its body in 
patches. It lay with its head on its paws and only its eyes moving, 
watching us carefully. It struck me as a very bright and very malnourished 
dog. No one patted the dog. It was not a pet. It was a worker.

"The buggers love shade", the rancher said. "I suppose 
because it saves them some loss of body water. They'll move around 
that rock all day, following the shade. During the hottest part of 
the day, of course, the sun comes straight down and there isn't any 
shade".   We drove close to the boulder, stopped the Land Rover, 
and walked over toward the family.   The man was leaning against 
the rock. He gazed away from us as we approached. He was over 
six feet tall and very thin. His legs were narrow and very long. Every 
bone and muscle in his body showed, but he did not give the appearance 
of starving. He had long black hair and a wispy beard. The ridges 
over his eyes were huge and his eyelids were half shut. There was something 
about his face that disturbed me and it took several seconds 
to realize what. It was not merely that flies were crawling over his 
face but his narrowed eyelids did not blink when the flies crawled into 
his eye sockets. A fly would crawl down the bulging forehead, into 
the socket of the eye, walk along the man's lashes and across the wet 
surface of the eyeball, and the eye did not blink. The Australian 
and I both were wearing insect repellent and were not badly bothered 
by insects, but my eyes watered as we stood watching the aborigine.

I turned to look at the lubra. She remained squatting on her heels 
all the time we were there; like the man, she was entirely naked. 
Her long thin arms moved in a slow rhythmical gesture over the family 
possessions which were placed in front of her. There were two rubbing 
sticks for making fire, two stones shaped roughly like knives, a woven-root 
container which held a few pounds of dried worms and the dead 
body of some rodent. There was also a long wooden spear and a woomera, 
a spear-throwing device which gives the spear an enormous velocity 
and high accuracy. There was also a boomerang, elaborately carved. Everything 
was burnished with sweat and grease so that all of the objects 
seemed to have been carved from the same material and to be ageless.

The two children, both boys, wandered around the Australian 
and me for a few moments and then returned to their work. They squatted 
on their heels with their heads bent far forward, their eyes only 
a few inches from the ground. They had located the runway of a colony 
of ants and as the ants came out of the ground, the boys picked them 
up, one at a time, and pinched them dead. The tiny bodies, dropped onto 
a dry leaf, made a pile as big as a small apple.   The odor 
here was more powerful than that which surrounded the town aborigines. 
The smell at first was more surprising than unpleasant. It was also 
subtly familiar, for it was the odor of the human body, but multiplied 
innumerable times because of the fact that the aborigines never bathed. 
One's impulse is to say that the smell was a stink and unpleasant. 
But that is a cliche and a dishonest one. The smell is sexual, but 
so powerfully so that a civilized nose must deny it.   Their 
skin was covered with a thin coating of sweat and dirt which had almost 
the consistency of a second skin. They roll at night in ashes to keep 
warm and their second skin has a light dusty cast to it. In spots 
such as the elbows and knees the second skin is worn off and I realized 
the aborigines were much darker than they appeared; as if the coating 
of sweat, dirt, and ashes were a cosmetic. The boys had beautiful 
dark eyes and unlike their father they brushed constantly at the flies 
and blinked their eyes.   "That smell is something, eh, mate"? 
the Australian asked. "They swear that every person smells 
different and every family smells different from every other. At the 
<corroborees,> when they get to dancing and sweating, you'll see 
them rubbing up against a man who's supposed to have a specially good 
smell. Idje, here", and he nodded at the man, "is said to have 
great odor. The stink is all the same to me, but I really think they 
can make one another out blindfolded".   "Here, Idje, you 
fella like tabac"? he said sharply. Idje still stared over our shoulders 
at the horizon. The Australian stopped trying to talk a pidgin 
I could understand, and spoke strange words from deep in his chest.

It was a fortunate time in which to build, for the seventeenth 
century was a great period in Persian art. The architects, the tile 
and carpet makers, the potters, painters, calligraphers, and metalsmiths 
worked through Abbas's reign and those of his successors to enrich 
the city. Travelers entering from the desert were confounded by 
what must have seemed an illusion: a great garden filled with nightingales 
and roses, cut by canals and terraced promenades, studded with 
water tanks of turquoise tile in which were reflected the glistening 
blue curves of a hundred domes. At the heart of all of this was the square, 
which one such traveler declared to be "as spacious, as pleasant 
and aromatick a Market as any in the Universe". In time Isfahan 
came to be known as "half the world", Isfahan <nisf-i-jahan>.

In the early eighteenth century this fantastic city, then the 
size of London, started to decline. The Afghans invaded; the Safavids 
fell from power; the capital went elsewhere; the desert encroached. 
Isfahan became more of a legend than a place, and now it is 
for many people simply a name to which they attach their notions of 
old Persia and sometimes of the East. They think of it as a kind of 
spooky museum in which they may half see and half imagine the old splendor.

Those who actually get there find that it isn't spooky 
at all but as brilliant as a tile in sunlight. But even for them it 
remains a museum, or perhaps it would be more accurate to say a tomb, 
a tomb in which Persia lies well preserved but indeed dead. Everyone 
is ready to grant the Persians their history, but almost no one is 
willing to acknowledge their present. It seems that for Persia, and 
especially for this city, there are only two times: the glorious past 
and the corrupt, depressing, sterile present. The one apparent connection 
between the two is a score of buildings which somehow or other 
have survived and which naturally enough are called "historical monuments".

However, just as all the buildings have not fallen and 
flowed back to their original mud, so the values which wanted them 
and saw that they were built have not all disappeared. The values and 
talents which made the tile and the dome, the rug, the poem and the miniature, 
continue in certain social institutions which rise above the 
ordinary life of this city, as the great buildings rise above blank walls 
and dirty lanes. Often, too, the social institutions are housed 
in these pavilions and palaces and bridges, for these great structures 
are not simply "historical monuments"; they are the places where 
Persians live.   The promenade, for example, continues to take 
place on the Chahar Bagh, a mile-long garden of plane and poplar trees 
that now serves as the city's principal street. ?t takes place 
as well along the terraces and through the arcades of the Khaju bridge, 
and also in the gardens of the square. On Fridays, the day when 
many Persians relax with poetry, talk, and a samovar, people do not, 
it is true, stream into Chehel Sotun- a pavilion and garden built 
by Shah Abbas /2, in the seventeenth century- but they do retire 
into hundreds of pavilions throughout the city and up the river valley, 
which are smaller, more humble copies of the former. And of course 
religious life continues to center in the more famous mosques, and commercial 
life- very much a social institution- in the bazaar. Those 
three other great activities of the Persians, the bath, the teahouse, 
and the <zur khaneh> (the latter a kind of club in which a leader 
and a group of men in an octagonal pit move through a rite of calisthenics, 
dance, chanted poetry, and music), do not take place in buildings 
to which entrance tickets are sold, but some of them occupy splendid 
examples of Persian domestic architecture: long, domed, chalk-white 
rooms with daises of turquoise tile, their end walls cut through 
to the orchards and the sky by open arches.   But more important, 
and the thing which the casual traveler and the blind sojourner often 
do not see, is that these places and activities are often the settings 
in which Persians exercise their extraordinary aesthetic sensibilities. 
Water, air, fruit, poetry, music, the human form- these things 
are important to Persians, and they experience them with an intense 
and discriminating awareness.   I should like, by the way, to make 
it clear that I am not using the word "Persians" carelessly. 
I don't mean a few aesthetes who play about with sensations, like 
a young prince in a miniature dabbling his hand in a pool. These things 
are important to almost all Persians and perhaps most important to 
the most ordinary. The men crying love poems in an orchard on any summer's 
night are as often as not the <lutihaw,> mustachioed toughs 
who spend most of their lives in and out of the local prisons, brothels, 
and teahouses. A few months ago it was a fairly typical landlord 
who in the dead of night lugged me up a mountainside to drink from a spring 
famous in the neighborhood for its clarity and flavor. Not long 
ago an acquaintance, a slick-headed water rat of a lad up from the maw 
of the city, stood on the balcony puffing his first cigarette in weeks. 
The air, he said, was just right; a cigarette would taste particularly 
good. I really didn't know what he meant. It was a nice day, 
granted. But <he> knew; he sniffed the air and licked it on his 
lip and knew as a vintner knows a vintage.   The natural world 
then, plus poetry and some kinds of art, receives from the most ordinary 
of Persians a great deal of attention. The line of an eyebrow, 
the color of the skin, a ghazal from Hafiz, the purity of spring water, 
the long afternoon among the boughs which crowd the upper story of 
a pavilion- these things are noticed, judged, and valued.   Nowhere 
in Isfahan is this rich aesthetic life of the Persians shown so 
well as during the promenade at the Khaju bridge. There has probably 
always been a bridge of some sort at the southeastern corner of the 
city. For one thing, there is a natural belt of rock across the river 
bed; for another, it was here that one of the old caravan routes came 
in. It was to provide a safe and spacious crossing for these caravans, 
and also to make a pleasance for the city, that Shah Abbas /2, 
in about 1657 built, of sun-baked brick, tile, and stone, the present 
bridge. It is a splendid structure. From upstream it looks like a 
long arcaded box laid across the river; from downstream, where the 
water level is much lower, it is a high, elaborately facaded pavilion.

The top story contains more than thirty alcoves separated from 
each other by spandrels of blue and yellow tile. At either end and 
in the center there are bays which contain nine greater alcoves as frescoed 
and capacious as church apses. Here, in the old days- when they 
had come to see the moon or displays of fireworks- sat the king and 
his court while priests, soldiers, and other members of the party lounged 
in the smaller alcoves between.   Below, twenty vaults tunnel 
through the understructure of the bridge. These are traversed by 
another line of vaults, and thus rooms, arched on all four sides, are 
formed. Down through the axis of the bridge there is a long diminishing 
vista like a visual echo of piers and arches, while the vaults fronting 
upstream and down frame the sunset and sunrise, the mountains and 
river pools. Here, on the hottest day, it is cool beneath the stone 
and fresh from the water flowing in the sluices at the bottom of the 
vaults.   On the downstream, or "pavilion", side these vaults 
give out onto terraces twice as wide as the bridge itself. From the 
terraces- eighteen in all- broad flights of steps descend into the 
water or onto still more terraces barely above the level of the river. 
Out of water, brick, and tile they have made far more than just a 
bridge.   On spring and summer evenings people leave their shops 
and houses and walk up through the lanes of the city to the bridge. It 
is a great spectacle. The bridge itself rises up from the river, light-flared 
and enormous, like the outdoor set for an epic opera. Crowds 
press along the terraces, down the steps, in and out of the arcades, 
massing against it as though it were a fortress under siege. All kinds 
come to walk in the promenade: merchants from the bazaar bickering 
over a deal; a Bakhtiari khan in a cap and hacking jacket; dervishes 
who stand with the stillness of the blind, their eyes filmed with 
rheum and visions; the old Kajar princes arriving in their ancient 
limousines; students, civil servants, beggars, musicians, hawkers, 
and clowns. Families go out to the edge of the terraces to sit on 
carpets around a samovar. Below, people line the steps, as though on 
bleachers, to watch the sky and river. Above, in the tiled prosceniums 
of the alcoves, boys sing the ghazals of Hafiz and Saadi, while at 
the very bottom, in the vaults, the toughs and blades of the city hoot 
and bang their drums, drink arak, play dice, and dance.   Here 
in an evening Persians enjoy many of the things which are important 
to them: poetry, water, the moon, a beautiful face. To a stranger 
their delight in these things may seem paradoxical, for Persians chase 
the golden calf as much as any people. Many of them, moreover, are 
beginning to complain about the scarcity of Western amusements and to 
ridicule the old life of the bazaar merchant, the mullah, and the peasant. 
Nonetheless, they take time out- much time- from the game of 
grab and these new Western experiments to go to the gardens and riverbanks. 
Above all, they will stop in the middle of anything, anywhere, 
to hear or quote some poetry.   Poetry in Persian life is far 
more than a common ground on which- in a society deeply fissured by 
antagonisms- all may stand. It contains, in fact, their whole outlook 
on life. And it is expressed, at least to their taste, in a perfect 
form. Poetry for a Persian is nothing less than truth and beauty. 
In most Western cultures today these twins have been sent away to the 
libraries and museums. In Persia, where practically speaking there 
are no museums or libraries or, for that matter, hardly any books, the 
twins run free.   It is perhaps difficult to conceive, but imagine 
that tonight on London bridge the Teddy boys of the East End 
will gather to sing Marlowe, Herrick, Shakespeare, and perhaps some 
lyrics of their own. That, at any rate, is what happens at the Khaju 
bridge. Boys and men go along the riverbank or to the alcoves in the 
top arcade. Here in these little rooms- or stages arched open to 
the sky and river- they choose a few lines out of the hundreds they 
may know and sing them according to one of the modes into which Persian 
music is divided. Each mode is believed to have a specific attribute- 
one inducing pleasure, another generosity, another love, and so 
on, to include all of the emotions. The singer simply matches the poem 
to a mode; for example, the mode of bravery to this anonymous folk 
poem: "<They brought me news that Spring is in the plains And 
Ahmad's blood the crimson tulip stains; Go, tell his aged mother 
that her son Fought with a thousand foes, and he was one>". 
Or the mode of love to this fragment by a recent poet: "<Know 
ye, fair folk who dwell on earth Or shall hereafter come to birth, That 
here, with dust upon his eyes, Iraj, the sweet-tongued singer, lies. 
In this true lover's tomb interred A world of love lies sepulchred> 
**h".   These songs (practically all Persian music, for 
that matter) are limited to a range of two octaves. Yet within this 
limitation there is an astonishing variety: design as intricate as 
that in the carpet or miniature, with the melodic line like the painted 
or woven line often flowing into an arabesque. 
<Die Frist ist um, und wiederum verstrichen sind sieben Jahr,> the 
Maestro quoted <The Flying Dutchman,> as he told of his career 
and wanderings, explaining that the number seven had significantly recurred 
in his life several times.   The music director of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra, William Steinberg, has molded his group 
into a prominent musical organization, which is his life. When he 
added to his Pittsburgh commitments the directorship of the London 
Philharmonic Orchestra in 1958, he conducted one hundred fifty concerts 
within nine months, "commuting" between the two cities. This 
schedule became too strenuous, even for the energetic and conscientious 
Mr& Steinberg. His London contract was rescinded, and now, he 
explains cheerfully, as a bright smile lightens his intense, mobile face, 
"I conduct only one hundred and twenty concerts"!   Our 
meeting took place in May, 1961, during one of the Maestro's stop-overs 
in New York, before he left for Europe. As we began to converse 
in the lounge of his Fifth Avenue hotel, his restlessness and 
sensitivity to light and sound became immediately apparent. Seeking 
an obscure, dark, relatively quiet corner in the airy room otherwise 
suffused with afternoon sunshine, he asked if the soft background music 
could be turned off. Unfortunately, it was Muzak, which automatically 
is piped into the public rooms, and which <nolens volens> had to 
be endured. As he talked about himself, time and again stuffing and 
dragging on his pipe, Steinberg began to relax and the initial hurried 
feeling grew faint and was dispelled.   Did he come from a musical 
family? Yes: though not professional musicians, they were a 
music-loving family. In his native Cologne, where his mother taught 
him to play the piano, he was able to read notes before he learned the 
alphabet. She even devised a system of colors, whereby the boy could 
easily distinguish the different note values. When he started school 
at the age of five-and-a-half, he could not understand why the alphabet 
begins with the letter ~A, instead of ~C, as in the scale. Because, 
like many other children, he intensely disliked practicing Czerny 
<Etudes,> he composed his own studies. When he was eight he began 
violin lessons. Soon he was playing in the Cologne Municipal Orchestra, 
and during World War /1,, when musicians were scarce, he 
joined the opera orchestra as well. Steinberg claims that these early 
years of orchestra participation were of invaluable help to his career. 
"By observing the conductor", he says with a twinkle in his 
eyes, "I learned how not to conduct".   The musician ran away 
from school when he was fifteen, but this escapade did not save him 
from the Gymnasium. Simultaneously, he pursued his musical studies 
at the conservatory, receiving sound training in counterpoint and harmony, 
as well in the violin and piano. His professional career began when 
he was twenty; he became Otto Klemperer's personal assistant 
at the Cologne Opera, and a year later was promoted to the position 
of regular conductor.   Wasn't this an unusually young age to 
fill such a responsible post? Yes, the Maestro assented.   Had 
he always wished to be a conductor? No, originally he had hoped 
to become a concert pianist and had even performed as such. However, 
when he assumed the duties of a conductor, he relinquished his career 
as a pianist.   Five years were spent with the Cologne Opera, 
after which he was called to Prague by Alexander von Zemlinsky, teacher 
of Arnold Scho^nberg and Erich Korngold. In 1927 he succeeded 
Zemlinsky as opera director of the German Theater at Prague. 
During his tenure he also fulfilled guest engagements at the Berlin 
State Opera. Two years later he became director of the Frankfurt Opera, 
where he remained until he lost this position in 1933 through the 
rise of the Hitler regime. During these years the youthful conductor 
had contributed greatly to the high level of musical life in Germany. 
He had presented the first German performances of Puccini's 
<Manon Lescaut> and de Falla's 
<La Vida Breve>. The Frankfurt 
years were particularly noteworthy for his performance of Berg's 
<Wozzek> soon after the Berlin premiere under Erich Kleiber, 
and the world premiere of Scho^nberg's <Von heute auf morgen>. 
At the outset of his career, Steinberg had dedicated himself to the 
advancement of contemporary music by vowing to do a Scho^nberg work 
every year. In Frankfurt, too, he directed the Museum and Opera 
House concerts which, in addition to the standard repertoire, featured 
novelties like Erdmann's Piano Concerto and Mahler's Sixth 
Symphony.   Because of the political upheaval in Germany in the 
1930's, 
Steinberg was forced to restrict his activities to the Jewish 
community. Through the Frankfurt Jewish <Kulturbund> he began 
to give sonata recitals in synagogues, with Cellist Emanuel Feuermann. 
As more and more Jewish musicians lost their jobs with professional 
organizations Steinberg united them into the Frankfurt <Kulturbund> 
Orchestra, which also gave guest performances in other German 
cities. In 1936 he accepted the leadership of the Berlin <Kulturbund>. 
In the fall of that year the best musicians of the Berlin 
and Frankfurt <Kulturbund> orchestras joined under the combined efforts 
of Bronislaw Hubermann and Steinberg to become the Palestine 
Orchestra- now known as the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra- with 
Steinberg as founder-conductor.   In 1938, at the insistence 
of Arturo Toscanini, Steinberg left Germany for the United States, 
by way of Switzerland. After he had spent the first three years 
in New York as associate conductor, at Toscanini's invitation, of 
the ~NBC Orchestra, he made numerous guest appearances throughout 
the United States and Latin America. In 1945 he became conductor 
of the Buffalo Philharmonic. Seven years later he was asked to become 
director of the Pittsburgh Symphony. Since 1944 he has also conducted 
regularly at the San Francisco Opera, where he made his debut 
with a memorable performance of Verdi's <Falstaff>. In recent 
years he has traveled widely in Europe, conducting in Italy, France, 
Austria, and Switzerland. He returned to Germany for the first 
time in 1953, where he has since conducted in Cologne, Frankfurt, 
and Berlin.   Where in Europe was he going now?   First 
of all, to Italy for a short vacation- Forte dei Marmi, a place 
he loves. Since it is not far from Viareggio, he will visit Puccini's 
house, as he never fails to do, to pay his respects to the memory 
of the composer of <La Boheme,> which he considers one of Puccini's 
masterpieces. Steinberg spoke with warmth and enthusiasm about 
Italy: "Rome is my second home. I consider it the center of the 
world and make it a point to be there once a year". He will conduct 
two concerts at the Accademia di Santa Cecilia, as well as concerts 
in Munich and Cologne. "Then I return to the United States 
for engagements at the Hollywood Bowl and in Philadelphia", he 
added.   The forthcoming season in Pittsburgh also promises to 
be of unusual interest. There will be premieres of new works, made possible 
through Ford Foundation commissions: Carlisle Floyd's <Mystery,> 
with Phyllis Curtin as soprano soloist. Other world premieres 
will be Gardner Read's Third Symphony and Burle Marx's 
<Samba Concertante>.   "And next year we will do- also 
a Ford commission- a piano concerto by Elliott Carter, with Jacob 
Lateiner as soloist. Of course, I shall conduct Mahler and Bruckner 
works in the coming season, as usual. We'll play Bruckner's 
Fifth Symphony in the original version, and Mahler's Seventh- 
the least accessible, known, and played of Mahler's works. My Pittsburghers 
have become real addicts to Mahler and Bruckner".

He added that he also stresses the works of these favorite masters 
on tour, especially Mahler's First and Fourth symphonies, and 
<Das Lied von der Erde,> and Bruckner's Sixth- which is rarely 
played- and Seventh. Bruckner's Eighth he refers to as "my 
travel symphony". He recalled that in California after a critic 
had attacked him for "still trying to sell Bruckner to the Americans", 
the public's response at the next concert was a standing ovation.

"Now that Bruno Walter is virtually in retirement and 
my dear friend Dimitri Mitropoulos is no longer with us, I am probably 
the only one- with the possible exception of Leonard Bernstein- 
who has this special affinity for and champions the works of Bruckner 
and Mahler".   Since he introduces so much modern music, 
I could not resist asking how he felt about it.   "There was 
always and at all times a contemporary music and it expresses the era 
in which it was created. But I usually stick to the old phrase: 
<'Ich habe ein Amt, aber keine Meinung> (I hold an office, but 
I do not feel entitled to have an opinion). I consider it to be my 
job to expose the public to what is being written today".   With 
all his musical activities, did he have the time and inclination to 
do anything else? He had just paid a brief visit to the Frick Collection 
to admire his favorite paintings by Rembrandt and Franz Hals. 
He was not enthusiastic over the newly acquired Claude Lorrain, 
but reminisced with pleasure over a Poussin exhibit he had been able 
to see in Paris a year ago.   And how did he feel about modern 
art? Again Steinberg was cautious and replied with a smile that he 
was not exposed to it enough to hazard comments. "As my wife puts 
it", he said, again with a twinkle in his eyes, "all you know is 
your music. But after all, you never learned anything else"!

What did he do for relaxation? Like his late colleague, Mitropoulos, 
he reads mystery stories, in particular Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. 
He cited Heine and Stendhal as favorites in literature.

But his prime interest, apart from music, he insisted seriously, was 
his family- his wife, daughter and son. At the moment he was excited 
about his son's having received the Prix de Rome in archaeology 
and was looking forward to being present this summer at the excavation 
of an Etruscan tomb. "Both children are musical and my wife is 
a music lover of unfailing instinct and judgment". 
"IS the attitude of German youth comparable to that of "the 
angry 
young men' of England"? was the topic for a round-table discussion 
at the Bayerische Rundfunk in Munich.   I was chairman, 
the only not youthful participant. Since attack serves to stimulate 
interest in broadcasts, I added to my opening statement a sentence in 
which I claimed that German youth seemed to lack the enthusiasm which 
is a necessary ingredient of anger, and might be classified as uninterested 
and bored rather than angry. I was far from convinced of the 
truth of my statement, but could not think of anything that might evoke 
responses more quickly.   "It is easy for you to talk"; 
countered a twenty year old law student, "you travel around the world. 
We would like to do that too".   "But you want a job guaranteed 
when you return", I continued my attack. "You must have 
some security", said a young clerk.   When I mentioned that 
for my first long voyage I did not even have the money for the return 
fare, but had trusted to luck that I would earn a sufficient amount, 
the young people looked at me doubtingly. One girl expressed what was 
obviously in their minds.   "Would you advise us to act the 
same way? You might have failed. I think it is rather foolhardy to 
trust to luck".   Others mentioned that I might have had to 
ask 
friends or even strangers for help and that to be stranded in a foreign 
country without sufficient funds did not contribute to international 
understanding.   The debate needed no additional controversy 
and soon I could ask each individually what he expected from life, what 
his hopes were and what his fears.   Though the four boys and 
two girls, the youngest nineteen years of age, the oldest twenty-four, 
came from varying backgrounds and had different professional and personal 
interests, there was surprising agreement among them. What they 
wished for most was security; what they feared most was war or political 
instability in their own country.   The ideal home, they 
agreed, would be a small private house or a city apartment of four to 
five rooms, just enough for a family consisting of husband, wife, and 
two children. No one wanted a larger family or no children, and none 
hoped for a castle or said that living in less settled circumstances would 
be satisfactory.   All expressed interest in world affairs 
but no one offered to make any sacrifices to satisfy this interest. 
##

ONCE again, as in the days of the Founding Fathers, America 
faces a stern test. That test, as President Kennedy forthrightly 
depicted it in his State of the Union message, will determine "whether 
a nation organized and governed such as ours can endure".

It is well then that in this hour both of "national peril" 
and of "national opportunity" we can take counsel with the men who 
made the nation. Incapable of self-delusion, the Founding Fathers 
found the crisis of their time to be equally grave, and yet they had 
confidence that America would surmount it and that a republic of free 
peoples would prosper and serve as an example to a world aching for liberty.

Seven Founders- George Washington, Benjamin Franklin, 
John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, Alexander Hamilton, James 
Madison and John Jay- determined the destinies of the new nation. 
In certain respects, their task was incomparably greater than ours today, 
for there was nobody before them to show them the way. As Madison 
commented to Jefferson in 1789, "We are in a wilderness without 
a single footstep to guide us. Our successors will have an easier task".

They thought of themselves, to use Jefferson's words, 
as "the Argonauts" who had lived in "the Heroic Age". Accordingly, 
they took special pains to preserve their papers as essential 
sources for posterity. Their writings assume more than dramatic or 
patriotic interest because of their conviction that the struggle in 
which they were involved was neither selfish nor parochial but, rather, 
as Washington in his last wartime circular reminded his fellow countrymen, 
that "with our fate will the destiny of unborn millions be involved".

Strong men with strong opinions, frank to the point 
of being refreshingly indiscreet, the Founding Seven were essentially 
congenial minds, and their agreements with each other were more consequential 
than their differences. Even though in most cases the completion 
of the definitive editions of their writings is still years off, 
enough documentation has already been assembled to warrant drawing 
a new composite profile of the leadership which performed the heroic dual 
feats of winning American independence and founding a new nation.

Before merging them into a common profile it is well to remember 
that their separate careers were extraordinary. Certainly no other 
seven American statesmen from any later period achieved so much in 
so concentrated a span of years.   Eldest of the seven, Benjamin 
Franklin, a New Englander transplanted to Philadelphia, wrote the 
most dazzling success story in our history. The young printer's apprentice 
achieved greatness in a half-dozen different fields, as editor 
and publisher, scientist, inventor, philanthropist and statesman. 
Author of the Albany Plan of Union, which, had it been adopted, might 
have avoided the Revolution, he fought the colonists' front-line 
battles in London, negotiated the treaty of alliance with France and 
the peace that ended the war, headed the state government of Pennsylvania, 
and exercised an important moderating influence at the Federal 
Convention. ##

ON a military mission for his native Virginia 
the youthful George Washington touched off the French and Indian 
War, then guarded his colony's frontier as head of its militia. 
Commanding the Continental Army for six long years of the Revolution, 
he was the indispensable factor in the ultimate victory. Retiring 
to his beloved Mount Vernon, he returned to preside over the Federal 
Convention, and was the only man in history to be unanimously elected 
President. During his two terms the Constitution was tested and 
found workable, strong national policies were inaugurated, and the 
traditions and powers of the Presidential office firmly fixed. 
John Adams fashioned much of pre-Revolutionary radical ideology, wrote 
the constitution of his home state of Massachusetts, negotiated, 
with Franklin and Jay, the peace with Britain and served as our first 
Vice President and our second President. ##

HIS political 
opponent and lifetime friend, Thomas Jefferson, achieved immortality 
through his authorship of the Declaration of Independence, but 
equally notable were the legal and constitutional reforms he instituted 
in his native Virginia, his role as father of our territorial system, 
and his acquisition of the Louisiana Territory during his first 
term as President.   During the greater part of Jefferson's 
career he enjoyed the close collaboration of a fellow Virginian, James 
Madison, eight years his junior. The active sponsor of Jefferson's 
measure for religious liberty in Virginia, Madison played the most 
influential single role in the drafting of the Constitution and in 
securing its ratification in Virginia, founded the first political 
party in American history, and, as Jefferson's Secretary of State 
and his successor in the Presidency, guided the nation through the 
troubled years of our second war with Britain.   If Franklin was 
an authentic genius, then Alexander Hamilton, with his exceptional 
precocity, consuming energy, and high ambition, was a political prodigy. 
His revolutionary pamphlets, published when he was only 19, quickly 
brought him to the attention of the patriot leaders. Principal author 
of "The Federalist", he swung New York over from opposition 
to the Constitution to ratification almost single-handedly. His 
collaboration with Washington, begun when he was the general's aide 
during the Revolution, was resumed when he entered the first Cabinet 
as Secretary of the Treasury. His bold fiscal program and his broad 
interpretation of the Constitution stand as durable contributions. 
##

LESS dazzling than Hamilton, less eloquent than Jefferson, 
John Jay commands an equally high rank among the Founding Fathers. 
He served as president of the Continental Congress. He played 
the leading role in negotiating the treaty with Great Britain that 
ended the Revolution, and directed America's foreign affairs throughout 
the Confederation period. As first Chief Justice, his strong 
nationalist opinions anticipated John Marshall. He ended his public 
career as a two-term governor of New York.   These Seven Founders 
constituted an intellectual and social elite, the most respectable 
and disinterested leadership any revolution ever confessed. Their 
social status was achieved in some cases by birth, as with Washington, 
Jefferson and Jay; in others by business and professional acumen, 
as with Franklin and Adams, or, in Hamilton's case, by an influential 
marriage. Unlike so many of the power-starved intellectuals 
in underdeveloped nations of our own day, they commanded both prestige 
and influence before the Revolution started.   As different 
physically as the tall, angular Jefferson was from the chubby, rotund 
Adams, the seven were striking individualists. Ardent, opinionated, 
even obstinate, they were amazingly articulate, wrote their own copy, 
and were masters of phrasemaking. ##

CAPABLE of enduring friendships, 
they were also stout controversialists, who could write with 
a drop of vitriol on their pens. John Adams dismissed John Dickinson, 
who voted against the Declaration of Independence, as "a certain 
great fortune and piddling genius". Washington castigated his 
critic, General Conway, as being capable of "all the meanness of intrigue 
to gratify the absurd resentment of disappointed vanity". And 
Hamilton, who felt it "a religious duty" to oppose Aaron Burr's 
political ambitions, would have been a better actuarial risk had 
he shown more literary restraint.   The Seven Founders were 
completely dedicated to the public service. Madison once remarked: 
"My life has been so much a public one", a comment which fits the 
careers of the other six. Franklin retired from editing and publishing 
at the age of 42, and for the next forty-two years devoted himself 
to public, scientific, and philanthropic interests. Washington never 
had a chance to work for an extended stretch at the occupation he loved 
best, plantation management. He served as Commander in Chief during 
the Revolution without compensation. ##

JOHN ADAMS took 
to heart the advice given him by his legal mentor, Jeremiah Gridley, 
to "pursue the study of the law, rather than the gain of it". In 
taking account of seventeen years of law practice, Adams concluded 
that "no lawyer in America ever did so much business as I did" 
and "for so little profit". When the Revolution broke out, he, along 
with Jefferson and Jay, abandoned his career at the bar, with considerable 
financial sacrifice.   Hamilton, poorest of the seven, 
gave up a brilliant law practice to enter Washington's Cabinet. 
While he was handling the multi-million-dollar funding operations of 
the Government he had to resort to borrowing small sums from friends. 
"If you can conveniently let me have twenty dollars", he wrote 
one friend in 1791 when he was Secretary of the Treasury.   To 
support his large family Hamilton went back to the law after each spell 
of public service. Talleyrand passed his New York law office one 
night on the way to a party. Hamilton was bent over his desk, drafting 
a legal paper by the light of a candle. The Frenchman was astonished. 
"I have just come from viewing a man who had made the fortune 
of his country, but now is working all night in order to support his 
family", he reflected. ##

ALL seven combined ardent devotion 
to the cause of revolution with a profound respect for legality. John 
Adams asserted in the Continental Congress' Declaration of 
Rights that the demands of the colonies were in accordance with their 
charters, the British Constitution and the common law, and Jefferson 
appealed in the Declaration of Independence "to the tribunal of 
the world" for support of a revolution justified by "the laws of 
nature and of nature's God".   They fought hard, but they were 
forgiving to former foes, and sought to prevent vindictive legislatures 
from confiscating Tory property in violation of the Treaty of 
1783.   This sense of moderation and fairness is superbly exemplified 
in an exchange of letters between John Jay and a Tory refugee, 
Peter Van Schaack. Jay had participated in the decision that exiled 
his old friend Van Schaack. Yet when, at war's end, the ex-Tory 
made the first move to resume correspondence, Jay wrote him from 
Paris, where he was negotiating the peace settlement: 
"As 
an independent American I considered all who were not for us, and you 
amongst the rest, as against us, yet be assured that John Jay never 
ceased to be the friend of Peter Van Schaack".   The latter 
in turn assured him that "were I arraigned at the bar, and you my 
judge, I should expect to stand or fall only by the merits of my cause".

All seven recognized that independence was but the first 
step toward building a nation. "We have now a national character 
to establish", Washington wrote in 1783. "Think continentally", 
Hamilton counseled the young nation. This new force, love of country, 
super-imposed upon- if not displacing- affectionate ties to one's 
own state, was epitomized by Washington. His first inaugural 
address speaks of "my country whose voice I can never hear but with 
veneration and love".   All sought the fruition of that nationalism 
in a Federal Government with substantial powers. Save Jefferson, 
all participated in the framing or ratification of the Federal 
Constitution. They supported it, not as a perfect instrument, but as 
the best obtainable. Historians have traditionally regarded the great 
debates of the Seventeen Nineties as polarizing the issues of centralized 
vs& limited government, with Hamilton and the nationalists 
supporting the former and Jefferson and Madison upholding the latter 
position. ##

THE state's rights position was formulated by 
Jefferson and Madison in the Kentucky and Virginia Resolves, but 
in their later careers as heads of state the two proved themselves better 
Hamiltonians than Jeffersonians. In purchasing Louisiana, Jefferson 
had to adopt Hamilton's broad construction of the Constitution, 
and so did Madison in advocating the rechartering of Hamilton's 
bank, which he had so strenuously opposed at its inception, and in 
adopting a Hamiltonian protective tariff. Indeed, the old Jeffersonians 
were far more atune to the Hamilton-oriented Whigs than they 
were to the Jacksonian Democrats. ##

WHEN, in 1832, the South 
Carolina nullifiers adopted the principle of state interposition 
which Madison had advanced in his old Virginia Resolve, they elicited 
no encouragement from that senior statesman. In his political testament, 
"Advice to My Country", penned just before his death, Madison 
expressed the wish "that the Union of the States be cherished 
and perpetuated. Let the open enemy to it be regarded as a Pandora 
with her box opened; and the disguised one, as the serpent creeping 
with his deadly wiles into Paradise". 

#TOBACCO ROAD IS DEAD. LONG LIVE TOBACCO ROAD.#

Nostalgic Yankee 
readers of Erskine Caldwell are today informed by proud Georgians 
that Tobacco Road is buried beneath a four-lane super highway, over 
which travel each day suburbanite businessmen more concerned with the 
Dow-Jones average than with the cotton crop. Thus we are compelled 
to face the urbanization of the South- an urbanization which, despite 
its dramatic and overwhelming effects upon the Southern culture, 
has been utterly ignored by the bulk of Southern writers. Indeed, it 
seems that only in today's Southern fiction does Tobacco Road, 
with all the traditional trimmings of sowbelly and cornbread and mint 
juleps, continue to live- but only as a weary, overexploited phantom.

Those writers known collectively as the "Southern school" 
have received accolades from even those critics least prone to eulogize; 
according to many critics, in fact, the South has led the North 
in literature since the Civil War, both quantitatively and qualitatively. 
Such writers as William Faulkner and Robert Penn Warren 
have led the field of somewhat less important writers in a sort of post-bellum 
renaissance. It is interesting, however, that despite this 
strong upsurge in Southern writing, almost none of the writers has 
forsaken the firmly entrenched concept of the white-suited big-daddy colonel 
sipping a mint julep as he silently recounts the revenue from the 
season's cotton and tobacco crops; of the stereotyped Negro servants 
chanting hymns as they plow the fields; of these and a host of 
other antiquated legends that deny the South its progressive leaps 
of the past century. This is not to say that the South is no longer 
agrarian; such a statement would be the rankest form of oversimplification. 
But the South is, and has been for the past century, engaged 
in a wide-sweeping urbanization which, oddly enough, is not reflected 
in its literature.   In 1900 the South was only 15% urban; 
in 1950 it had become 47.1% urban. In a mere half-century the South 
has more than tripled its urban status. There is a New South emerging, 
a South losing the folksy traditions of an agrarian society with 
the rapidity of an avalanche- especially within recent decades. As 
the New South snowballs toward further urbanization, it becomes more 
and more homogeneous with the North- a tendency which Willard 
Thorp terms "Yankeefication", as evidenced in such cities as Charlotte, 
Birmingham, and Houston. It is said that, even at the present 
stage of Southern urbanization, such a city as Atlanta is not distinctly 
unlike Columbus or Trenton. Undoubtedly even the old Southern 
stalwart Richmond has felt the new wind: William Styron mentions 
in his latest novel an avenue named for Bankhead McGruder, a Civil 
War general, now renamed, in typical California fashion, "Buena 
Vista Terrace". The effects of television and other mass media 
are erasing regional dialects and localisms with a startling force. 
As for progress, the "backward South" can boast of Baton Rouge, 
which increased its population between 1940 and 1950 by two hundred 
and sixty-two percent, to 126,000, the second largest growth of the period 
for all cities over 25,000.   The field, then, is ripe for 
new Southerners to step to the fore and write of this twentieth-century 
phenomenon, the Southern Yankeefication: the new urban economy, 
the city-dweller, the pains of transition, the labor problems; the 
list is, obviously, endless. But these sources have not been tapped. 
Truman Capote is still reveling in Southern Gothicism, exaggerating 
the old Southern legends into something beautiful and grotesque, but 
as unreal as- or even <more> unreal than- yesterday. William 
Styron, while facing the changing economy with a certain uneasy reluctance, 
insists he is not to be classified as a Southern writer and 
yet includes traditional Southern concepts in everything he publishes. 
Even the great god Faulkner, the South's one probable contender 
for literary immortality, has little concerned himself with these matters; 
such are simply not within his bounded province.   Where 
are the writers to treat these changes? Has the agrarian tradition 
become such an addiction that the switch to urbanism is somehow dreaded 
or unwanted? Perhaps present writers hypnotically cling to the 
older order because they consider it useful and reliable through repeated 
testings over the decades. Lacking the pioneer spirit necessary to 
write of a <new> economy, these writers seem to be contenting themselves 
with an old one that is now as defunct as Confederate money.

An example of the changes which have crept over the Southern region 
may be seen in the Southern Negro's quest for a position in 
the white-dominated society, a problem that has been reflected in regional 
fiction especially since 1865. Today the Negro must discover his 
role in an <industrialized> South, which indicates that the racial 
aspect of the Southern dilemma hasn't changed radically, but rather 
has gradually come to be reflected in this new context, this new coat 
of paint. The Negro faces as much, if not more, difficulty in fitting 
himself into an urban economy as he did in an agrarian one. This 
represents a gradual change in an ever-present social problem. But there 
have been abrupt changes as well: the sit-ins, the picket lines, 
the bus strikes- all of these were unheard-of even ten years ago. 
Today's evidence, such as the fact that only three Southern states 
(South Carolina, Alabama and Mississippi) still openly defy integration, 
would have astounded many of yesterday's Southerners into speechlessness.

Other examples of <gradual> changes that have 
affected the Negro have been his moving up, row by row, in the busses; 
his requesting, and often getting, higher wages, better working conditions, 
better schools- changes that were slowly emerging even before 
the Supreme Court decision of 1954. Then came this decision, which 
sped the process of gaining equality (or perhaps hindered it; only 
historical evolution will determine which): an <abrupt> change.

Since 1954 the Negro's desire for social justice has led 
to an ironically anarchical rebellion. He has frequently refused to move 
from white lunch counters, refused to obey <local> laws which he 
considers unjust, while in other cases he has appealed to <federal> 
laws. This bold self-assertion, after decades of humble subservience, 
is indeed a twentieth-century phenomenon, an abrupt change in the Southern 
way of existence. A new order is thrusting itself into being. 
A new South is emerging after the post-bellum years of hesitation, 
uncertainty, and lack of action from the Negro in defining his new role 
in the amorphously defined socio-political organizations of the white 
man.   The modern Negro has not made a decisive debut into Southern 
fiction. It is clear that, while most writers enjoy picturing 
the Negro as a woolly-headed, humble old agrarian who mutters "yassuhs" 
and "sho' nufs" with blissful deference to his white employer 
(or, in Old South terms, "massuh"), this stereotype is doomed 
to become in reality as obsolete as Caldwell's Lester. While 
there may still be many Faulknerian Lucas Beauchamps scattered through 
the rural South, such men appear to be a vanishing breed. Writers 
openly admit that the Negro is easier to write than the white man; 
but they obviously mean by this, not a Negro personality, but a Negro 
<type>. Presenting an individualized Negro character, it would 
seem, is one of the most difficult assignments a Southern writer could 
tackle; and the success of such an endeavor is, as suggested above, 
glaringly rare.   Just as the Negro situation points up the 
gradual and abrupt changes affecting Southern life, it also points up 
the non-representation of urbanism in Southern literature. The book 
concerned with the Negro's role in an urban society is rare indeed; 
recently only Keith Wheeler's novel, <Peaceable Lane>, has 
openly faced the problem.   All but the most rabid of Confederate 
flag wavers admit that the Old Southern tradition is defunct in 
actuality and sigh that its passing was accompanied by the disappearance 
of many genteel and aristocratic traditions of the reputedly languid 
ante-bellum way of life. Many earlier writers, mourning the demise 
of the old order, tended to romanticize and exaggerate this "gracious 
Old South" imagery, creating such lasting impressions as Margaret 
Mitchell's 
"Tara" plantation. Modern writers, who are supposed 
to keep their fingers firmly upon the pulse of their subjects, insist 
upon drawing out this legend, prolonging its burial, when it well deserves 
a rest after the overexploitation of the past century. Perhaps 
these writers have been too deeply moved by this romanticizing; but 
they can hardly deny that, exaggerated or not, the old panorama is dead. 
As John T& Westbrook says in his article, "Twilight of Southern 
Regionalism" (<Southwest Review>, Winter 1957): "**h 
The miasmal mausoleum where an Old South, already too minutely 
autopsied in prose and poetry, should be left to rest in peace, forever 
dead and (let us fervently hope) forever done with".   Westbrook 
further bemoans the Southern writers' creation of an unreal image 
of their homeland, which is too readily assimilated by both foreign 
readers and visiting Yankees: "Our northerner is suspicious of 
all this crass evidence [of urbanization] presented to his senses. 
It bewilders and befuddles him. He is too deeply steeped in William 
Faulkner and Robert Penn Warren. The fumes of progress are in his 
nose and the bright steel of industry towers before his eyes, but his 
heart is away in Yoknapatawpha County with razorback hogs and night 
riders. On this trip to the South he wants, above all else, to sniff 
the effluvium of backwoods-and-sand-hill subhumanity and to see at 
least one barn burn at midnight". Obviously, such a Northern tourist's 
purpose is somewhat akin to a child's experience with Disneyland: 
he <wants> to see a world of make-believe.   In the 
meantime, while the South has been undergoing this phenomenal modernization 
that is so disappointing to the curious Yankee, Southern writers 
have certainly done little to reflect and promote their region's 
progress. Willard Thorp, in his new book <American Writing in 
the Twentieth Century>, observes, quite validly it seems: "**h 
Certain subjects are conspicuously absent or have been only lightly touched. 
No southern novelist has done for Atlanta or Birmingham what 
Herrick, Dreiser, and Farrell did for Chicago or Dos Passos did 
for New York **h There are almost no fictional treatments of the 
industrialized south". Not a single Southern author, major or minor, 
has made the urban problems of an urban South his primary source material.

Faulkner, for one, appears to be safe from the accusing 
fingers of all assailants in this regard. Faulkner culminates the 
Southern legend perhaps more masterfully than it has ever been, or could 
ever be, done. He has made it his, and his it remains, irrevocably. 
He treats it with a mythological, universal application.   As 
his disciples boast, even though his emphasis is elsewhere, Faulkner 
does show his awareness of the changing order of the South quite keenly, 
as can be proven by a quick recalling of his Sartoris and Snopes 
families. Even two decades ago in <Go Down, Moses> Faulkner 
was looking to the more urban future with a glimmer of hope that through 
its youth and its new way of life the South might be reborn and the 
curse of slavery erased from its soil. Yet his concern even here is 
with a slowly changing socio-economic order in general, and he never 
deals with such specific aspects of this change as the urban and industrial 
impact.   Faulkner traces, in his vast and overpowering saga 
of Yoknapatawpha County, the gradual changes which seep into the 
South, building layer upon layer of minute, subtle innovation which eventually 
tend largely to hide the Old Way. Thus Faulkner reminds 
us, and wisely, that the "new" South has gradually evolved out of 
the Old South, and consequently its agrarian roots persist. Yet he 
presents a realm of source material which may well serve other writers 
if not himself: the problems with which a New South must grapple 
in groping through a blind adolescence into the maturity of urbanization. 
With new mechanization the modern farmer must perform the work of 
six men: a machine stands between the agrarian and his soil. The 
thousands of city migrants who desert the farms yearly must readjust with 
even greater stress and tension: the sacred wilderness is gradually 
surrendering to suburbs and research parks and industrial areas.

Another element to concern the choreographer is that of the visual 
devices of the theatre. Most avant-garde creators, true to their 
interest in the self-sufficiency of pure movement, have tended to dress 
their dancers in simple lines and solid colors (often black) and to 
give them a bare cyclorama for a setting. But Robert Rauschenberg, 
the neo-dadaist artist, has collaborated with several of them. He has 
designed a matching backdrop and costumes of points of color on white 
for Mr& Cunningham's <Summerspace>, so that dancers and background 
merge into a shimmering unity. For Mr& Taylor's <Images 
and Reflections> he made some diaphanous tents that alternately 
hide and reveal the performer, and a girl's cape lined with grass. Mr& 
Nikolais has made a distinctive contribution to the arts of costume 
and decor. In fact, he calls his productions dance-theatre works 
of motion, shape, light, and sound. To raise the dancer out of his personal, 
pedestrian self, Mr& Nikolais has experimented with relating 
him to a larger, environmental orbit. He began with masks to make 
the dancer identify himself with the creature he appeared to be. He 
went on to use objects- hoops, poles, capes- which he employed as 
extensions of the body of the dancer, who moved with them. The depersonalization 
continued as the dancer was further metamorphosed by the play 
of lights upon his figure. In each case, the object, the color, even 
the percussive sounds of the electronic score were designed to become 
part of the theatrical being of the performer. The dancer who never 
loosens her hold on a parasol, begins to feel that it is part of herself. 
Or, clad from head to toe in fabric stretched over a series of 
hoops, the performer may well lose his sense of self in being a "finial". 
As the dancer is depersonalized, his accouterments are animized, 
and the combined elements give birth to a new being. From this being 
come new movement ideas that utilize dancer and property as a single 
unit.   Thus, the avant-garde choreographers have extended the 
scope of materials available for dance composition. But, since they 
have rejected both narrative and emotional continuity, how are they 
to unify the impressive array of materials at their disposal? Some 
look deliberately to devices used by creators in the other arts and apply 
corresponding methods to their own work. Others, less consciously 
but quite probably influenced by the trends of the times, experiment 
with approaches that parallel those of the contemporary poet, painter, 
and musician.   An approach that has appealed to some choreographers 
is reminiscent of Charles Olson's statement of the process 
of projective verse: "one perception must immediately and directly 
lead to a further perception". The creator trusts his intuition to 
lead him along a path that has internal validity because it mirrors 
the reality of his experience. He disdains external restrictions- conventional 
syntax, traditional metre. The unit of form is determined 
subjectively: "the Heart, by the way of the Breath, to the Line". 
The test of form is fidelity to the experience, a gauge also accepted 
by the abstract expressionist painters.   An earlier but 
still influential school of painting, surrealism, had suggested the way 
of dealing with the dream experience, that event in which seemingly 
incongruous objects are linked together through the curious associations 
of the subconscious. The resulting picture might appear a maze of 
restless confusions and contradictions, but it is more true to life than 
a portrait of an artificially contrived order. The contemporary painter 
tends to depict not the concrete objects of his experience but 
their essences as revealed in abstractions of their lines, colors, masses, 
and energies. He is still concerned, however, with a personal event. 
He accepts the accidents of his brushwork because they provide evidence 
of the vitality of the experience of creation. The work must 
be true to both the physical and the spiritual character of the experience.

Some painters have less interest in the experience of the 
moment, with its attendant urgencies and ambiguities, than in looking 
beyond the flux of particular impressions to a higher, more serene level 
of truth. Rather than putting their trust in ephemeral sensations 
they seek form in the stable relationships of pure design, which symbolize 
an order more real than the disorder of the perceptual world. The 
concept remains subjective. But in this approach it is the artist's 
ultimate insight, rather than his immediate impressions, that gives 
form to the work.   Others look to more objective devices of 
order. The musician employing the serial technique of composition establishes 
a mathematical system of rotations that, once set in motion, 
determines the sequence of pitches and even of rhythms and intensities. 
The composer may reverse or invert the order of his original set of 
intervals (or rhythms or dynamic changes). He may even alter the pattern 
by applying a scheme of random numbers. But he cannot order his 
elements by will, either rational or inspired. The system works as an 
impersonal mechanism. Musicians who use the chance method also exclude 
subjective control of formal development. Again, the composer must 
select his own materials. But a tossing of coins, with perhaps the added 
safeguard of reference to the oracles of the <I Ching>, the Chinese 
Book of Changes, dictates the handling of the chosen materials.

Avant-garde choreographers, seeking new forms of continuity 
for their new vocabulary of movements, have turned to similar approaches. 
Some let dances take their form from the experience of creation. 
According to Katherine Litz, "the becoming, the process of realization, 
is the dance". The process stipulates that the choreographer 
sense the quality of the initial movement he has discovered and that 
he feel the rightness of the quality that is to follow it. The sequence 
may involve a sharp contrast: for example, a quiet meditative sway 
of the body succeeded by a violent leap; or it may involve more subtle 
distinctions: the sway may be gradually minimized or enlarged, 
its rhythmic emphasis may be slightly modified, or it may be transferred 
to become a movement of only the arms or the head. Even the least 
alteration will change the quality. An exploration of these possible 
relationships constitutes the process of creation and thereby gives form 
to the dance.   The approach to the depiction of the experience 
of creation may be analytic, as it is for Miss Litz, or spontaneous, 
as it is for Merle Marsicano. She, too, is concerned with "the 
becoming, the process of realization", but she does not think in 
terms of subtle variations of spatial or temporal patterns. The design 
is determined emotionally: "I must reach into myself for the spring 
that will send me catapulting recklessly into the chaos of event 
with which the dance confronts me". Looking back, Miss Marsicano 
feels that her ideas may have been influenced by those of Jackson Pollock. 
At one time she felt impelled to make dances that "moved all 
over the stage", much as Pollock's paintings move violently over 
the full extent of the canvas. But her conscious need was to break away 
from constricting patterns of form, a need to let the experience shape 
itself.   Midi Garth also believes in subjective continuity 
that begins with the feeling engendered by an initial movement. It 
may be a free front-back swing of the leg, leading to a sideways swing 
of the arm that develops into a turn and the sensation of taking off 
from the ground. This became a dance called <Prelude to Flight>. 
A pervading quality of free lyricism and a building from turns close 
to the ground towards jumps into the air gives the work its central focus.

Alwin Nikolais objects to art as an outpouring of personal 
emotion. He seeks to make his dancers more "godlike" by relating 
them to the impersonal elements of shape, light color, and sound. If 
his dancers are sometimes made to look as if they might be creatures 
from Mars, this is consistent with his intention of placing them in 
the orbit of another world, a world in which they are freed of their 
pedestrian identities. It is through the metamorphosed dancer that the 
germ of form is discovered. In his recognition of his impersonal self 
the dancer moves, and this self, in the "first revealed stroke of 
its existence", states the theme from which all else must follow. The 
theme may be the formation of a shape from which other shapes evolve. 
It may be a reaction to a percussive sound, the following movements 
constituting further reactions. It may establish the relation of the 
figure of the dancer to light and color, in which case changes in the 
light or color will set off a kaleidescope of visual designs. Unconcerned 
with the practical function of his actions, the dancer is engrossed 
exclusively in their "motional content". Movements unfold freely 
because they are uninhibited by emotional bias or purposive drive. 
But the metamorphosis must come first.   Though he is also concerned 
with freeing dance from pedestrian modes of activity, Merce 
Cunningham has selected a very different method for achieving his aim. 
He rejects all subjectively motivated continuity, any line of action 
related to the concept of cause and effect. He bases his approach 
on the belief that anything can follow anything. An order can be chanced 
rather than chosen, and this approach produces an experience that 
is "free and discovered rather than bound and remembered". Thus, 
there is freshness not only in the individual movements of the dance 
but in the shape of their continuity as well. Chance, he finds, enables 
him to create "a world beyond imagination". He cites with pleasure 
the comment of a lady, who exclaimed after a concert: "Why, 
it's extremely interesting. But I would never have thought of it myself".

The sequence of movements in a Cunningham dance is 
unlike any sequence to be seen in life. At one side of the stage a dancer 
jumps excitedly; nearby, another sits motionless, while still another 
is twirling an umbrella. A man and a girl happen to meet; they 
look straight at the audience, not at each other. He lifts her, puts 
her down, and walks off, neither pleased nor disturbed, as if nothing 
had happened. If one dancer slaps another, the victim may do a pirouette, 
sit down, or offer his assailant a fork and spoon. Events occur 
without apparent reason. Their consequences are irrelevant- or there 
are no consequences at all.   The sequence is determined by 
chance, and Mr& Cunningham makes use of any one of several chance 
devices. He may toss coins; he may take slips of paper from a grab 
bag. The answers derived by these means may determine not only the temporal 
organization of the dance but also its spatial design, special 
slips designating the location on the stage where the movement is to be 
performed. The other variables include the dancer who is to perform 
the movement and the length of time he is to take in its performance. 
The only factors that are personally set by the choreographer are the 
movements themselves, the number of the dancers, and the approximate 
total duration of the dance. The "approximate" is important, because 
even after the order of the work has been established by the chance 
method, the result is not inviolable. Each performance may be different. 
If a work is divided into several large segments, a last-minute 
drawing of random numbers may determine the order of the segments for 
any particular performance. And any sequence can not only change its 
positions in the work but can even be eliminated from it altogether.

Mr& Cunningham tries not to cheat the chance method; he 
adheres to its dictates as faithfully as he can. However, there is always 
the possibility that chance will make demands the dancers find impossible 
to execute. Then the choreographer must arbitrate. He must 
rearrange matters so that two performers do not bump into each other. 
He must construct transitions so that a dancer who is told to lie prone 
one second and to leap wildly the next will have some physical preparation 
for the leap.

THE NORTH AND THE SOUTH were in greater agreement on sovereignty, 
through all their dispute about it, than were the Founding Fathers. 
The truth in their conflicting concepts was expounded by statesmen 
of the calibre of Webster and Calhoun, and defended in the end 
by leaders of the nobility of Lincoln and Lee. The people everywhere 
had grown meanwhile in devotion to basic democratic principles, in 
understanding of and belief in the federal balance, and in love of their 
Union. Repeated efforts- beginning with the Missouri Compromise 
of 1821- were made by such master moderates as Clay and Douglas 
to resolve the difference peacefully by compromise, rather than clear 
thought and timely action. Even so, confusion in this period gained 
such strength (from compromise and other factors) that it led to the 
bloodiest war of the Nineteenth century. Nothing can show more than 
this the immensity of the danger to democratic peoples that lies in 
even relatively slight deviation from their true concept of sovereignty.

The present issue in Atlantica- whether to transform an 
alliance of sovereign nations into a federal union of sovereign citizens- 
resembles the American one of 1787-89 rather than the one that 
was resolved by Civil War. And so I would only touch upon it now 
(much as I have long wanted to write a book about it). I think it is 
essential, however, to pinpoint here the difference between the two concepts 
of sovereignty that went to war in 1861- if only to see better 
how imperative is our need today to clarify completely our far worse 
confusion on this subject.   The difference came down to this: 
The Southern States insisted that the United States was, in last 
analysis, what its name implied- a Union of States. To their leaders 
the Constitution was a compact made by the people of sovereign 
states, who therefore retained the right to secede from it. This right 
of the State, its upholders contended, was essential to maintain 
the federal balance and protect the liberty of the people from the danger 
of centralizing power in the Union government. The champions of 
the Union maintained that the Constitution had formed, fundamentally, 
the united people of America, that it was a compact among sovereign 
citizens rather than states, and that therefore the states had no right 
to secede, though the citizens could. Writing to Speed on August 
24, 1855, Lincoln made the latter point clear. In homely terms whose 
timeliness is startling today, he thus declared his own right to secede. 
"  We began by declaring that <all men are created equal>. 
We now practically read it, <all men are created equal except negroes>. 
When the Know-nothings get control, it will read, <All 
men 
are created equal except negroes> and foreigners and Catholics. When 
it comes to this, I shall prefer emigrating to some country where 
they make no pretence of loving liberty- to Russia, for instance, where 
despotism can be taken pure, without the base alloy of hypocrisy". 
[His emphasis]   When the Southern States exercised 
their "right to secede", they formed what they officially styled "The 
Confederate States of America". Dictionaries, as we have 
seen, still cite this government, along with the Articles of Confederation 
of 1781, as an example of a confederacy. The fact is that the 
Southern Confederacy differed from the earlier one almost as much as 
the Federal Constitution did. The Confederate Constitution copied 
much of the Federal Constitution verbatim, and most of the rest in 
substance. It operated on, by and for the people individually just as 
did the Federal Constitution. It made substantially the same division 
of power between the central and state governments, and among the 
executive, legislative and judicial branches. 

#THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN 
CONFEDERACY AND FEDERAL UNION IN 1861#

Many believe- and understandably- 
that the great difference between the Constitution of 
the Southern Confederacy and the Federal Constitution was that the 
former recognized the right of each state to secede. But though each 
of its members had asserted this right against the Union, the final 
Constitution which the Confederacy signed on March 11- nearly a month 
before hostilities began- included no explicit provision authorizing 
a state to secede. Its drafters discussed this vital point but 
left it out of their Constitution. Their President, Jefferson Davis, 
interpreted their Constitution to mean that it "admits of no coerced 
association", but this reremained so doubtful that "there were 
frequent demands that the right to secede be put into the Constitution".

The Constitution of the Southern "Confederation" 
differed from that of the Federal Union only in two important respects: 
It openly, defiantly, recognized slavery- an institution 
which the Southerners of 1787, even though they continued it, found so 
impossible to reconcile with freedom that they carefully avoided mentioning 
the word in the Federal Constitution. They recognized that 
slavery was a moral issue and not merely an economic interest, and that 
to recognize it explicitly in their Constitution would be in explosive 
contradiction to the concept of sovereignty they had set forth in 
the Declaration of 1776 that "all men are created equal, that they 
are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among 
them are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness **h". The 
other important difference between the two Constitutions was that the 
President of the Confederacy held office for six (instead of four) 
years, and was limited to one term.   These are not, however, differences 
in federal structure. The only important differences from that 
standpoint, between the two Constitutions, lies in their Preambles. 
The one of 1861 made clear that in making their government the people 
were acting through their states, whereas the Preamble of 1787-89 
expressed, as clearly as language can, the opposite concept, that they 
were acting directly as citizens. Here are the two Preambles: _FEDERAL 
CONSTITUTION, 1789_ "we the People of the United States, 
in order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure 
domestic Tranquility, provide for the common Defence, promote the general 
Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and 
our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United 
States of America". _CONFEDERATE CONSTITUTION, 1861_ "We 
the people of the Confederate States, each state acting in its 
sovereign and independent character, in order to form a permanent federal 
government, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, and secure 
the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity- invoking 
the favor and the guidance of Almighty God- do ordain and establish 
this Constitution for the Confederate States of America".

One is tempted to say that, on the difference between the concepts 
of sovereignty in these two preambles, the worst war of the Nineteenth 
century was fought. But though the Southern States, when drafting 
a constitution to unite themselves, narrowed the difference to this 
fine point by omitting to assert the right to secede, the fact remained 
that by seceding from the Union they had already acted on the concept 
that it was composed primarily of sovereign states. If the Union 
conceded this to them, the same right must be conceded to each remaining 
state whenever it saw fit to secede: This would destroy the federal 
balance between it and the states, and in the end sacrifice to 
the sovereignty of the states all the liberty the citizens had gained 
by their Union.   Lincoln saw that the act of secession made the 
issue for the Union a vital one: Whether it was a Union of sovereign 
citizens that should continue to live, or an association of sovereign 
states that must fall prey either to "anarchy or despotism".

Much as he abhorred slavery, Lincoln was always willing to 
concede to each "slave state" the right to decide independently whether 
to continue or end it. Though his election was interpreted by 
many Southerners as the forerunner of a dangerous shift in the federal 
balance in favor of the Union, Lincoln himself proposed no such change 
in the rights the Constitution gave the states. After the war began, 
he long refused to permit emancipation of the slaves by Union action 
even in the Border States that stayed with the Union. He issued 
his Emancipation Proclamation only when he felt that necessity left 
him no other way to save the Union. In his Message of December 
2, 1862, he put his purpose and his policy in these words- which I 
would call the Lincoln Law of Liberty-and-Union: <"In giving 
freedom to the slave, we assure freedom to the free">.   What 
Lincoln could not concede was that the states rather than the people 
were sovereign in the Union. He fought to the end to preserve it 
as a "government of the people, by the people, for the people". 

#THE 
TRUTH ON EACH SIDE WON IN THE CIVIL WAR#

The fact that the Americans 
who upheld the sovereignty of their states did this in order to 
keep many of their people more securely in slavery- the antithesis 
of individual liberty- made the conflict grimmer, and the greater. 
Out of this ordeal the citizen emerged, in the South as in the North, 
as America's true sovereign, in "a new birth of freedom", as 
Lincoln promised. But before this came about, 214,938 Americans had 
given their lives in battle for the two concepts of the sovereign rights 
of men and of states.   On their decisive battlefield Lincoln 
did not distinguish between them when he paid tribute to the "brave 
men, living and dead, who fought here". He understood that both 
sides were at fault, and he reached the height of saying so explicitly 
in his Second Inaugural.   To my knowledge, Lincoln remains 
the only Head of State and Commander-in-Chief who, while fighting 
a fearful war whose issue was in doubt, proved man enough to say this 
publicly- to give his foe the benefit of the fact that in all human 
truth there is some error, and in all our error, some truth. So great 
a man could not but understand, too, that the thing that moves men to 
sacrifice their lives is not the error of their thought, which their 
opponents see and attack, but the truth which the latter do not see- 
any more than they see the error which mars the truth they themselves 
defend.   It is much less difficult now than in Lincoln's day 
to see that on both sides sovereign Americans had given their lives 
in the Civil War to maintain the balance between the powers they had 
delegated to the States and to their Union. They differed in the 
balance they believed essential to the sovereignty of the citizen- 
but the supreme sacrifice each made served to maintain a still more fundamental 
truth: That individual life, liberty and happiness depend 
on a right balance between the two- and on the limitation of sovereignty, 
in all its aspects, which this involves. The 140,414 Americans 
who gave "the last full measure of devotion" to prevent disunion, 
preserved individual freedom in the United States from the dangers 
of anarchy, inherent in confederations, which throughout history have 
proved fatal in the end to all associations composed primarily of sovereign 
states, and to the liberties of their people. But the fact that 
70,524 other Americans gave the same measure of devotion to an opposing 
concept served Liberty-and-Union in other essential ways.

Its appeal from ballots to bullets at Fort Sumter ended by costing 
the Southerners their right to have slaves- a right that was even 
less compatible with the sovereignty of man. The very fact that they 
came so near to winning by the wrong method, war, led directly to their 
losing both the war and the wrong thing they fought for, since it forced 
Lincoln to free their slaves as a military measure. There was 
a divine justice in one wrong thus undoing another. There was also a 
lesson, one that has served ever since to keep Americans, in their conflicts 
with one another, from turning from the ballot to the bullet. 
Yet though the Southern States lost the worst errors in their case, 
they did not lose the truth they fought for. The lives so many of them 
gave, to forestall what they believed would be a fatal encroachment 
by the Union on the powers reserved to their states have continued 
ever since to safeguard all Americans against freedom's other foe. 
As cells coalesced into organisms, they built new "unnatural" and 
internally controlled environments to cope even more successfully with 
the entropy-increasing properties of the external world. The useful 
suggestion of Professor David Hawkins which considers culture as a 
third stage in biological evolution fits quite beautifully then with 
our suggestion that science has provided us with a rather successful technique 
for building protective artificial environments. One wonders 
about its applicability to people. Will advances in human sciences help 
us build social structures and governments which will enable us to 
cope with people as effectively as the primitive combination of protein 
and nucleic acid built a structure of molecules which enabled it to 
adapt to a sea of molecular interaction? The answer is of course yes. 
For the family is the simplest example of just such a unit, composed 
of people, which gives us both some immunity from, and a way of dealing 
with, other people. Social invention did not have to await social 
theory any more than use of the warmth of a fire had to await Lavoisier 
or the buoyant protection of a boat the formulations of Archimedes. 
But it has been during the last two centuries, during the scientific 
revolution, that our independence from the physical environment has 
made the most rapid strides. We have ample light when the sun sets; 
the temperature of our homes is independent of the seasons; we fly 
through the air, although gravity pulls us down; the range of our 
voice ignores distance. At what stage are social sciences then? Is 
the future of psychology akin to the rich future of physics at the time 
of Newton? There is a haunting resemblance between the notion 
of cause in Copernicus and in Freud. And it is certainly no slight 
to either of them to compare both their achievements and their impact.

Political theoretical understanding, although almost at a standstill 
during this century, did develop during the eighteenth and nineteenth 
centuries, and resulted in a flood of inventions which increased 
the possibility for man to coexist with man. Consitutional government, 
popular vote, trial by jury, public education, labor unions, cooperatives, 
communes, socialized ownership, world courts, and the veto 
power in world councils are but a few examples. Most of these, with 
horrible exceptions, were conceived as is a ship, not as an attempt to 
quell the ocean of mankind, nor to deny its force, but as a means to 
survive and enjoy it. The most effective political inventions seem to 
make maximum use of natural harbors and are aware that restraining breakwaters 
can play only a minor part in the whole scheme. Just as present 
technology had to await the explanations of physics, so one might 
expect that social invention will follow growing sociological understanding. 
We are desperately in the need of such invention, for man is 
still very much at the mercy of man. In fact the accumulation of the 
hardware of destruction is day by day increasing our fear of each other. 
#/3,#

I want, therefore, to discuss a second and quite different 
fruit of science, the connection between scientific understanding 
and fear. There are certainly large areas of understanding in the human 
sciences which in themselves and even without political invention 
can help to dispel our present fears. Lucretius has remarked: "The 
reason why all Mortals are so gripped by fear is that they see all 
sorts of things happening in the earth and sky with no discernable cause, 
and these they attribute to the will of God". Perhaps things 
were even worse then. It is difficult to reconstruct the primeval fears 
of man. We get some clue from a few remembrances of childhood and 
from the circumstance that we are probably not much more afraid of people 
now than man ever was. We are not now afraid of atomic bombs in 
the same way that people once feared comets. The bombs are as harmless 
as an automobile in a garage. We are worried about what people may 
do with them- that some crazy fool may "push the button". 
I am certainly not adequately trained to describe or enlarge on human 
fears, but there are certain features of the fears dispelled by scientific 
explanations that stand out quite clearly. They are in general 
those fears that once seemed to have been amenable to prayer or ritual. 
They include both individual fears and collective ones. They arise 
in situations in which one believes that what happens depends not 
only on the external world, but also on the precise pattern of behavior 
of the individual or group. Often it is recognized that all the details 
of the pattern may not be essential to the outcome but, because 
the pattern was empirically determined and not developed through theoretical 
understanding, one is never quite certain which behavior elements 
are effective, and the whole pattern becomes ritualized. Yet often 
fear persists because, even with the most rigid ritual, one is never 
quite free from the uneasy feeling that one might make some mistake or 
that in every previous execution one had been unaware of the really decisive 
act. To say that science had reduced many such fears merely reiterates 
the obvious and frequent statement that science eliminated much 
of magic and superstition. But a somewhat more detailed analysis 
of this process may be illuminating.   The frequently postulated 
antique worry that the daylight hours might dwindle to complete darkness 
apparently gave rise to a ritual and celebration which we still recognize. 
It is curious that even centuries of repetition of the yearly 
cycle did not induce a sufficient degree of confidence to allow people 
to abandon the ceremonies of the winter solstice. This and other 
fears of the solar system have disappeared gradually, first, with the 
Ptolemaic 
system and its built-in concept of periodicity and then, more 
firmly, with the Newtonian innovation of an universal force that could 
account quantitatively for both terrestial and celestial motions. 
This understanding provides a very simple example of the fact that one 
can eliminate fear without instituting any controls. In fact, although 
we have dispelled the fear, we have not necessarily assured ourselves 
that there are no dangers. There is still the remote possibility 
of planetoid collision. A meteor could fall on San Francisco. Solar 
activities could presumably bring long periods of flood or drought. 
Our understanding of the solar system has taught us to replace our 
former elaborate rituals with the appropriate action which, in this case, 
amounts to doing nothing. Yet we no longer feel uneasy. This almost 
trivial example is nevertheless suggestive, for there are some elements 
in common between the antique fear that the days would get shorter 
and shorter and our present fear of war. We, in our country, think 
of war as an external threat which, if it occurs, will not be primarily 
of our own doing. And yet we obviously also believe that the avoidance 
of the disaster depends in some obscure or at least uncertain way 
on the details of how we behave. What elements of our behavior are decisive? 
Our weapons production, our world prestige, our ideas of democracy, 
our actions of trust or stubbornness or secrecy or espionage? 
We have staved off a war and, since our behavior has involved all 
these elements, we can only keep adding to our ritual without daring 
to abandon any part of it, since we have not the slightest notion which 
parts are effective.   I think that we are here also talking of 
the kind of fear that a young boy has for a group of boys who are approaching 
at night along the streets of a large city. If an automobile 
were approaching him, he would know what was required of him, even though 
he might not be able to act quickly enough. With the group of boys 
it is different. He does not know whether to look up or look aside, 
to put his hands in his pockets or to clench them at his side, to cross 
the street, or to continue on the same side. When confronted with 
a drunk or an insane person I have no notion of what any one of them 
might do to me or to himself or to others. I believe that what I do 
has some effect on his actions and I have learned, in a way, to commune 
with drunks, but certainly my actions seem to resemble more nearly 
the performance of a rain dance than the carrying out of an experiment 
in physics. I am usually filled with an uneasiness that through some 
unwitting slip all hell may break loose. Our inability to explain 
why certain people are fond of us frequently induces the same kind of 
ritual and malaise. We are forced, in our behavior towards others, to 
adopt empirically successful patterns in toto because we have such a 
minimal understanding of their essential elements.   Our collective 
policies, group and national, are similarly based on voodoo, but 
here we often lack even the empirically successful rituals and are still 
engaged in determing them. We use terms from our personal experience 
with individuals such as "trust", "cheat", and "get tough". 
We talk about national character in the same way that Copernicus 
talked of the compulsions of celestial bodies to move in circles. We 
perform elaborate international exhortations and ceremonies with virtually 
no understanding of social cause and effect. Small wonder, then, 
that we fear.   The achievements which dispelled our fears of 
the cosmos took place three centuries ago. What additional roles has 
the scientific understanding of the 19th and 20th centuries played? 
In the physical sciences, these achievements concern electricity, chemistry, 
and atomic physics. In the life sciences, there has been an 
enormous increase in our understanding of disease, in the mechanisms of 
heredity, and in bio- and physiological chemistry. The major effect 
of these advances appears to lie in the part they have played in the 
industrial revolution and in the tools which scientific understanding 
has given us to build and manipulate a more protective environment. In 
addition, our way of dealing directly with natural phenomena has also 
changed. Even in domains where detailed and predictive understanding 
is still lacking, but where some explanations are possible, as with 
lightning and weather and earthquakes, the appropriate kind of human action 
has been more adequately indicated.   Apparently the population 
as a whole eventually acquires enough confidence in the explanations 
of the scientists to modify its procedures and its fears. How and 
why this process occurs would provide an interesting separate subject 
for study. In some areas, the progress is slower than in others. In 
agriculture, for example, despite the advances in biology, elaborate 
rituals tend to persist along with a continued sense of the imminence 
of some natural disaster. In child care, the opposite extreme prevails; 
procedures change rapidly and parental confidence probably exceeds 
anything warranted by established psychological theory. There are 
many domains in which understanding has brought about widespread and quite 
appropriate reduction in ritual and fear. Much of the former extreme 
uneasiness associated with visions and hallucinations and with death 
has disappeared. The persistent horror of having a malformed child 
has, I believe, been reduced, not because we have gained any control 
over this misfortune, but precisely because we have learned that we 
have so little control over it. In fact, the recent warnings about the 
use of ~X-rays have introduced fears and ambiguities of action which 
now require more detailed understanding, and thus in this instance, 
science has momentarily aggravated our fears. In fact, insofar as 
science generates any fear, it stems not so much from scientific prowess 
and gadgets but from the fact that new unanswered questions arise, 
which, until they are understood, create uncertainty.   Perhaps 
the most illuminating example of the reduction of fear through understanding 
is derived from our increased knowledge of the nature of disease. 
The situation with regard to our attitude and "control" of disease 
contains close analogies to problems confronting us with respect 
to people. The fear of disease was formerly very much the kind of fear 
I have tried to describe. 
##

Nothing like Godot, he arrived before the hour. His letter had 
suggested we meet at my hotel at noon on Sunday, and I came into 
the lobby as the clock struck twelve. He was waiting.   My wish 
to meet Samuel Beckett had been prompted by simple curiosity and interest 
in his work. American newspaper reviewers like to call his plays 
nihilistic. They find deep pessimism in them. Even so astute a commentator 
as Harold Clurman of <The Nation> has said that "Waiting 
for Godot" is "the concentrate **h of the contemporary European 
**h mood of despair". But to me Beckett's writing had seemed 
permeated with love for human beings and with a kind of humor that 
I could reconcile neither with despair nor with nihilism. Could it 
be that my own eyes and ears had deceived me? Is his a literature of 
defeat, irrelevant to the social crises we face? Or is it relevant 
because it teaches us something useful to know about ourselves?

I knew that a conversation with the author would not settle such 
questions, because a man is not the same as his writing: in the last 
analysis, the questions had to be settled by the work itself. Nevertheless 
I was curious.   My curiosity was sharpened a day or two 
before the interview by a conversation I had with a well-informed teacher 
of literature, a Jesuit father, at a conference on religious 
drama near Paris. When Beckett's name came into the discussion, 
the priest 
grew loud and told me that Beckett "hates life". That, 
I thought, is at least one thing I can find out when we meet. ## 

Beckett's appearance is rough-hewn Irish. The features of his face 
are distinct, but not fine. They look as if they had been sculptured 
with an unsharpened chisel. Unruly hair goes straight up from his 
forehead, standing so high that the top falls gently over, as if to show 
that it really is hair and not bristle. One might say it combines 
the man; own pride and humility. For he has the pride that comes of 
self-acceptance and the humility, perhaps of the same genesis, not to 
impose himself upon another. His light blue eyes, set deep within the 
face, are actively and continually looking. He seems, by some unconscious 
division of labor, to have given them that one function and no 
other, leaving communication to the rest of the face. The mouth frequently 
breaks into a disarming smile. The voice is light in timbre, with 
a rough edge that corresponds to his visage. The Irish accent is, 
as one would expect, combined with slight inflections from the French. 
His tweed suit was a baggy gray and green. He wore a brown knit 
sports shirt with no tie.   We walked down the Rue de L'Arcade, 
thence along beside the Madeleine and across to a sidewalk cafe 
opposite that church. The conversation that ensued may have been engrossing 
but it could hardly be called world-shattering. For one thing, 
the world that Beckett sees is already shattered. His talk turns to 
what he calls "the mess", or sometimes "this buzzing confusion". 
I reconstruct his sentences from notes made immediately after our 
conversation. What appears here is shorter than what he actually said 
but very close to his own words.   "The confusion is not my 
invention. We cannot listen to a conversation for five minutes without 
being acutely aware of the confusion. It is all around us and our 
only chance now is to let it in. The only chance of renovation is to 
open our eyes and see the mess. It is not a mess you can make sense of".

I suggested that one must let it in because it is the truth, 
but Beckett did not take to the word truth.   "What is more 
true than anything else? To swim is true, and to sink is true. 
One is not more true than the other. One cannot speak anymore of being, 
one must speak only of the mess. When Heidegger and Sartre speak 
of a contrast between being and existence, they may be right, I don't 
know, but their language is too philosophical for me. I am not a 
philosopher. One can only speak of what is in front of him, and that 
now is simply the mess".   Then he began to speak about the tension 
in art between the mess and form. Until recently, art has withstood 
the pressure of chaotic things. It has held them at bay. It realized 
that to admit them was to jeopardize form. "How could the mess 
be admitted, because it appears to be the very opposite of form and 
therefore destructive of the very thing that art holds itself to be"? 
But now we can keep it out no longer, because we have come into a 
time when "it invades our experience at every moment. It is there 
and it must be allowed in".   I granted this might be so, but 
found the result to be even more attention to form than was the case previously. 
And why not? How, I asked, could chaos be admitted to 
chaos? Would not that be the end of thinking and the end of art? 
If we look at recent art we find it preoccupied with form. Beckett's 
own work is an example. Plays more highly formalized than "Waiting 
for Godot", "Endgame", and "Krapp's Last Tape" would 
be hard to find.   "What I am saying does not mean that there 
will henceforth be no form in art. It only means that there will 
be new form, and that this form will be of such a type that it admits 
the chaos and does not try to say that the chaos is really something 
else. The form and the chaos remain separate. The latter is not reduced 
to the former. That is why the form itself becomes a preoccupation, 
because it exists as a problem separate from the material it accommodates. 
To find a form that accommodates the mess, that is the task of 
the artist now".   Yet, I responded, could not similar things 
be said about the art of the past? Is it not characteristic of the 
greatest art that it confronts us with something we cannot clarify, 
demanding that the viewer respond to it in his own never-predictable 
way? What is the history of criticism but the history of men attempting 
to make sense of the manifold elements in art that will not allow 
themselves to be reduced to a single philosophy or a single aesthetic 
theory? Isn't all art ambiguous?   "Not this", he said, 
and gestured toward the Madeleine. The classical lines of the church 
which Napoleon thought of as a Temple of Glory, dominated all 
the scene where we sat. The Boulevard de la Madeleine, the Boulevard 
Malesherbes, and the Rue Royale ran to it with graceful flattery, 
bearing tidings of the Age of Reason. "Not this. This is clear. 
This does not allow the mystery to invade us. With classical art, 
all is settled. But it is different at Chartres. There is the unexplainable, 
and there art raises questions that it does not attempt to 
answer".   I asked about the battle between life and death in 
his plays. Didi and Gogo hover on the edge of suicide; Hamm's 
world is death and Clov may or may not get out of it to join the living 
child outside. Is this life-death question a part of the chaos?

"Yes. If life and death did not both present themselves to 
us, there would be no inscrutability. If there were only darkness, all 
would be clear. It is because there is not only darkness but also 
light that our situation becomes inexplicable. Take Augustine's doctrine 
of grace given and grace withheld: have you pondered the dramatic 
qualities in this theology? Two thieves are crucified with Christ, 
one saved and the other damned. How can we make sense of this 
division? In classical drama, such problems do not arise. The destiny 
of Racine's Phedre is sealed from the beginning: she will proceed 
into the dark. As she goes, she herself will be illuminated. At 
the beginning of the play she has partial illumination and at the end 
she has complete illumination, but there has been no question but that 
she moves toward the dark. That is the play. Within this notion clarity 
is possible, but for us who are neither Greek nor Jansenist there 
is not such clarity. The question would also be removed if we believed 
in the contrary- total salvation. But where we have both dark 
and light we have also the inexplicable. The key word in my plays is 
'perhaps'". ##

Given a theological lead, I asked what he 
thinks about those who find a religious significance to his plays.

"Well, really there is none at all. I have no religious feeling. 
Once I had a religious emotion. It was at my first Communion. 
No more. My mother was deeply religious. So was my brother. He knelt 
down at his bed as long as he could kneel. My father had none. The 
family was Protestant, but for me it was only irksome and I let it 
go. My brother and mother got no value from their religion when they 
died. At the moment of crisis it had no more depth than an old-school 
tie. Irish Catholicism is not attractive, but it is deeper. When 
you pass a church on an Irish bus, all the hands flurry in the sign of 
the cross. One day the dogs of Ireland will do that too and perhaps 
also the pigs".   But do the plays deal with the same facets 
of experience religion must also deal with?   "Yes, for they 
deal with distress. Some people object to this in my writing. At a 
party an English intellectual- so-called- asked me why I write 
always about distress. As if it were perverse to do so! He wanted 
to know if my father had beaten me or my mother had run away from home 
to give me an unhappy childhood. I told him no, that I had had a very 
happy childhood. Then he thought me more perverse than ever. I left 
the party as soon as possible and got into a taxi. On the glass partition 
between me and the driver were three signs: one asked for help 
for the blind, another help for orphans, and the third for relief for 
the war refugees. One does not have to look for distress. It is screaming 
at you even in the taxis of London".   Lunch was over, 
and we walked back to the hotel with the light and dark of Paris screaming 
at us. ##

The personal quality of Samuel Beckett is similar 
to qualities I had found in the plays. He says nothing that compresses 
experience within a closed pattern. "Perhaps" stands in 
place of commitment. At the same time, he is plainly sympathetic, clearly 
friendly. If there were only the mess, all would be clear; but 
there is also compassion.   As a Christian, I know I do not 
stand where Beckett stands, but I do see much of what he sees. As a 
writer on the theater, I have paid close attention to the plays. Harold 
Clurman is right to say that "Waiting for Godot" is a reflection 
(he calls it a distorted reflection) "of the impasse and disarray 
of Europe's present politics, ethic, and common way of life". 
Yet it is not only Europe the play refers to. "Waiting for Godot" 
sells even better in America than in France. The consciousness 
it mirrors may have come earlier to Europe than to America, but it 
is the consciousness that most "mature" societies arrive at when 
their successes in technological and economic systematization propel 
them into a time of examining the not-strictly-practical ends of culture. 
America is now joining Europe in this "mature" phase of development. 
Whether any of us remain in it long will depend on what happens 
as a result of the technological and economic revolutions now going 
on in the countries of Asia and Africa, and also of course on how long 
the cold war remains cold. 
Even Hemingway, for all his efforts to formulate a naturalistic morality 
in <The Sun Also Rises> and <A Farewell to Arms> never 
maintained that sex was all. Hemingway's fiction is supported by a 
"moral" backbone and in its search for ultimate meaning hints at 
a religious dimension. And D& H& Lawrence, in <Fantasia of the 
Unconscious,> protested vehemently against the overestimation of 
the sexual motive. Though sex in some form or other enters into all human 
activity and it was a good thing that Freud emphasized this aspect 
of human nature, it is fantastic to explain everything in terms of 
sex. "All is <not> sex", declared Lawrence. Man is not confined 
to one outlet for his vital energy. The creative urge, for example, 
transcends the body and the self.   But for the beat generation 
all <is> sex. Nothing is more revealing of the way of life and literary 
aspirations of this group than their attitude toward sex. For 
the beatnik, like the hipster, is in opposition to a society that is based 
on the repression of the sex instinct. He has elevated sex- not 
Eros or libido but pure, spontaneous, uninhibited sex- to the rank 
of the godhead; it is Astarte, Ishtar, Venus, Yahwe, Dionysus, 
Christ, the mysterious and divine orgone energy flowing through the 
body of the universe. Jazz is sex, marijuana is a stimulus to sex, the 
beat tempo is adjusted to the orgiastic release of the sexual impulse. 
Lawrence Lipton, in <The Holy Barbarians,> stresses that for 
the beat generation sex is more than a source of pleasure; it is a 
mystique, and their private language is rich in the multivalent ambiguities 
of sexual reference so that they dwell in a sexualized universe 
of discourse. The singular uncompromising force of their revolt against 
the cult of restraint is illustrated by their refusal to dance in 
a public place. The dance is but a disguised ritual for the expression 
of ungratified sexual desire. For this reason, too, their language 
is more forthright and earthy. The beatniks crave a sexual experience 
in which their whole being participates.   It is therefore not 
surprising that they resist the lure of marriage and the trap of domesticity, 
for like cats they are determined not to tame their sexual energy. 
They withdraw to the underground of the slums where they can defy 
the precepts of legalized propriety. Unlike the heroes and flappers 
of the lost generation, they disdain the art of "necking" and "petting". 
That is reserved for the squares. If they avoid the use 
of the pungent, outlawed four-letter word it is because it is taboo; 
it is sacred. As Lipton, the prophet of the beat generation, declares: 
"In the sexual act, the beat are filled with mana, the divine 
power. This is far from the vulgar, leering sexuality of the middle-class 
square in heat". This is the Holy Grail these knights of 
the orgasm pursue, this is the irresistible cosmic urge to which they 
respond.   If Wilhelm Reich is the Moses who has led them out 
of the Egypt of sexual slavery, Dylan Thomas is the poet who offers 
them the Dionysian dialectic of justification for their indulgence 
in liquor, marijuana, sex, and jazz. In addition, they have been converted 
to Zen Buddhism, with its glorification of all that is "natural" 
and mysteriously alive, the sense that everything in the world 
is flowing. Thus, paradoxically, the beat writers resort to "religious" 
metaphors: they are in search of mana, the spiritual, the numinous, 
but not anything connected with formal religion. What they are 
after is the beatific vision. And Zen Buddhism, though it is extremely 
difficult to understand how these internal contradictions are reconciled, 
helps them in their struggle to achieve personal salvation through 
sexual release.   The style of life chosen by the beat generation, 
the rhythm and ritual they have adopted as uniquely their own, 
is designed to enhance the value of the sexual experience. Jazz is 
good not only because it promotes wholeness but because of its decided 
sexual effect. Jazz is the musical language of sex, the vocabulary of 
the orgasm; indeed, it is maintained that the sexual element in jazz, 
by freeing the listener of his inhibitions, can have therapeutic 
value. That is why, the argument runs, the squares are so fearful of 
jazz and yet perversely fascinated by it. Instead of giving themselves 
spontaneously to the orgiastic release that jazz can give them, they 
undergo psychoanalysis or flirt with mysticism or turn to prostitutes 
for satisfaction. Thus jazz is transmuted into something holy, the 
sacred road to integration of being. Jazz, like sex, is a mystique. It 
is not a substitute for sex but a dynamic expression of the creative 
impulse in unfettered man.   The mystique of sex, combined with 
marijuana and jazz, is intended to provide a design for living. Those 
who are sexually liberated can become creatively alive and free, their 
instincts put at the service of the imagination. Righteous in their 
denunciation of all that makes for death, the beat prophets bid all 
men become cool cats; let them learn to "swing" freely, to let 
go, to become authentically themselves, and then perhaps civilization 
will be saved. The beatnik, seceding from a society that is fatally 
afflicted with a deathward drive, is concerned with his personal salvation 
in the living present. If he is the child of nothingness, if he 
is the predestined victim of an age of atomic wars, then he will consult 
only his own organic needs and go beyond good and evil. He will not 
curb his instinctual desires but release the energy within him that 
makes him feel truly and fully alive, even if it is only for this brief 
moment before the apocalypse of annihilation explodes on earth.

That is why the members of the beat generation proudly assume the 
title of the holy barbarians; they will destroy the shrines, temples, 
museums, and churches of the state that is the implacable enemy of the 
life they believe in. Apart from the categorical imperative they derive 
from the metaphysics of the orgasm, the only affirmation they are 
capable of making is that art is their only refuge. Their writing, 
born of their experiments in marijuana and untrammeled sexuality, reflects 
the extremity of their existential alienation. The mind has betrayed 
them, reason is the foe of life; they will trust only their physical 
sensations, the wisdom of the body, the holy promptings of the unconscious. 
With lyrical intensity they reveal what they hate, but their 
faith in love, inspired by the revolutionary rhythms of jazz, culminates 
in the climax of the orgasm. Their work mirrors the mentality 
of the psychopath, rootless and irresponsible. Their rebellion against 
authoritarian society is not far removed from the violence of revolt 
characteristic of the juvenile delinquent.   And the life they 
lead is undisciplined and for the most part unproductive, even though 
they make a fetish of devoting themselves to some creative pursuit- 
writing, painting, music. They are non-conformists on principle. When 
they express themselves it is incandescent hatred that shines forth, 
the rage of repudiation, the ecstasy of negation. It is sex that obsesses 
them, sex that is at the basis of their aesthetic creed. What 
they discuss with dialectical seriousness is the degree to which sex can 
inspire the Muse. Monogamy is the vice from which the abjectly fearful 
middle class continue to suffer, whereas the beatnik has the courage 
to break out of that prison of respectability. One girl describes 
her past, her succession of broken marriages, the abortions she has 
had 
and finally confesses that she loves sex and sees no reason why she 
must justify her passion. If it is an honest feeling, then why should 
she not yield to it? "<Most> often", she says, "it's the 
<monogamous> relationship that is <dis>honest". There is nothing 
holy in wedlock. This girl soon drops the bourgeois pyschiatrist 
who disapproves of her life. She finds married life stifling and every 
prolonged sex relationship unbearably monotonous.   This confession 
serves to make clear in part what is behind this sexual revolution: 
the craving for sensation for its own sake, the need for change, 
for new experiences. Boredom is death. In the realm of physical sensations, 
sex reigns supreme. Hence the beatniks sustain themselves on 
marijuana, jazz, free swinging poetry, exhausting themselves in orgies 
of sex; some of them are driven over the borderline of sanity and 
lose contact with reality. One beat poet composes a poem, "Lines on 
a Tijuana John", which contains a few happy hints for survival. 
The new fact the initiates of this cult have to learn is that they must 
move toward simplicity. The professed mission of this disaffiliated 
generation is to find a new way of life which they can express in poetry 
and fiction, but what they produce is unfortunately disordered, nourished 
solely on the hysteria of negation.   Who are the creative 
representatives of this movement? Nymphomaniacs, junkies, homosexuals, 
drug addicts, lesbians, alcoholics, the weak, the frustrated, 
the irresolute, the despairing, the derelicts and outcasts of society. 
They embrace independent poverty, usually with a "shack-up" partner 
who will help support them. They are full of contempt for the institution 
of matrimony. Their previous legalized marriages do not count, 
for they hold the laws of the state null and void. They feel they 
are leagued against a hostile, persecutory world, faced with the concerted 
malevolent opposition of squares and their hirelings, the police. 
This is the rhetoric of righteousness the beatniks use in defending 
their way of life, their search for wholeness, though their actual existence 
fails to reach these "religious" heights. One beatnik got 
the woman he was living with so involved in drugs and self-analysis and 
all-night sessions of sex that she was beginning to crack up. What 
obsessions had she picked up during these long nights of talk? Sex 
as the creative principle of the universe, the secret of primitive religion, 
the life of myth. Everything in the final analysis reduced itself 
to sexual symbolism. In his chapter on "The Loveways of the 
Beat Generation", Lipton spares the reader none of the sordid details. 
No one asks questions about the free union of the sexes in West 
Venice so long as the partners share the negative attitudes of the 
group.   The women who come to West Venice, having forsaken radicalism, 
are interested in living only for the moment, in being constantly 
on the move. Others who are attracted to this Mecca of the beat 
generation are homosexuals, heroin addicts, and smalltime hoodlums. 
Those who are sexual deviants are naturally drawn to join the beatniks. 
Since the homosexuals widely use marijuana, they do not have to be 
initiated. Part of the ritual of sex is the use of marijuana. As Lipton 
puts it: "The Eros is felt in the magic circle of marijuana 
with far greater force, as a unifying principle in human relationships, 
than at any other time except, perhaps, in the mutual metaphysical 
orgasms. The magic circle is, in fact, a symbol of and preparation for 
the metaphysical orgasm". Under the influence of marijuana the beatnik 
comes alive within and experiences a wonderfully enhanced sense 
of self as if he had discovered the open sesame to the universe of being. 
Carried high on this "charge", he composes "magical" poetry 
that captures the organic rhythms of life in words. If he thus achieves 
a lyrical, dreamlike, drugged intensity, he pays the price for his 
indulgence by producing work- Allen Ginsberg's "Howl" is 
a striking example of this tendency- that is disoriented, Dionysian 
but without depth and without Apollonian control. For drugs are in 
themselves no royal road to creativity. How is the beat poet to achieve 
unity of form when he is at the same time engaged in a systematic 
derangement of senses.   If love reflects the nature of man, as 
Ortega y Gasset believes, if the person in love betrays decisively what 
he is by his behavior in love, then the writers of the beat generation 
are creating a new literary genre. 
_@_ There were fences in the old days when we were children. Across 
the front of a yard and down the side, they were iron, either spiked 
along the top or arched in half circles. Alley fences were made 
of solid boards higher than one's head, but not so high as the golden 
glow in a corner or the hollyhocks that grew in a line against them. 
Side fences were hidden beneath lilacs and hundred-leaf roses; front 
fences were covered with Virginia creeper or trumpet vines or honeysuckle. 
Square corner- and gate posts were an open-work pattern of 
cast-iron foliage; they were topped by steeples complete in every detail: 
high-pitched roof, pinnacle, and narrow gable. On these posts 
the gates swung open with a squeak and shut with a metallic clang.

The only extended view possible to anyone less tall than the fences 
was that obtained from an upper bough of the apple tree. The primary 
quality of that view seems, now, to have been its quietness, but that 
cannot at the time have impressed us. What one actually remembers 
is its greenness. From high in the tree, the whole block lay within 
range of the eye, but the ground was almost nowhere visible. One looked 
down on a sea of leaves, a breaking wave of flower. Every path from 
back door to barn was covered by a grape-arbor, and every yard had its 
fruit trees. In the center of any open space remaining our grandfathers 
had planted syringa and sweet-shrub, snowball, rose-of-Sharon and 
balm-of-Gilead. From above one could only occasionally catch a glimpse 
of life on the floor of this green sea: a neighbor's gingham 
skirt flashing into sight for an instant on the path beneath her grape-arbor, 
or the movement of hands above a clothesline and the flutter 
of garments hung there, half-way down the block.   That was one 
epoch: the apple-tree epoch. Another had ended before it began. Time 
is a queer thing and memory a queerer; the tricks that time plays 
with memory and memory with time are queerest of all. From maturity 
one looks back at the succession of years, counts them and makes them 
many, yet cannot feel <length> in the number, however large. In a 
stream that turns a mill-wheel there is a lot of water; the mill-pond 
is quiet, its surface dark and shadowed, and there does not seem to 
be much water in it. Time in the sum is nothing. And yet- a year to 
a child is an eternity, and in the memory that phase of one's being- 
a certain mental landscape- will seem to have endured without beginning 
and without end. The part of the mind that preserves dates and 
events may remonstrate, "It could have been like that for only a 
little while"; but true memory does not count nor add: it holds 
fast to things that were and they are outside of time.   Once, 
then- for how many years or how few does not matter- my world was 
bound round by fences, when I was too small to reach the apple tree bough, 
to twist my knee over it and pull myself up. That world was in 
scale with my own smallness. I have no picture in my mind of the garden 
as a whole- that I could not see- but certain aspects of certain 
corners linger in the memory: wind-blown, frost-bitten, white chrysanthemums 
beneath a window, with their brittle brown leaves and their 
sharp scent of November; ripe pears lying in long grass, to be turned 
over by a dusty-slippered foot, cautiously, lest bees still worked 
in the ragged, brown-edged holes; hot-colored verbenas in the corner 
between the dining-room wall and the side porch, where we passed on 
our way to the pump with the half-gourd tied to it as a cup by my grandmother 
for our childish pleasure in drinking from it.   It was 
mother who planted the verbenas. I think that my grandmother was not 
an impassioned gardener: she was too indulgent a lover of dogs and 
grandchildren. My great-grandmother, I have been told, made her garden 
her great pride; she cherished rare and delicate plants like oleanders 
in tubs and wall-flowers and lemon verbenas in pots that had to 
be wintered in the cellar; she filled the waste spots of the yard with 
common things like the garden heliotrope in a corner by the woodshed, 
and the plantain lilies along the west side of the house. These my 
grandmother left in their places (they are still there, more persistent 
and longer-lived than the generations of man) and planted others like 
them, that flourished without careful tending. Three of these only 
were protected from us by stern commandment: the roses, whose petals 
might not be collected until they had fallen, to be made into perfume 
or rose-tea to drink; the peonies, whose tight sticky buds would 
be blighted by the laying on of a finger, although they were not apparently 
harmed by the ants that crawled over them; and the poppies. I 
have more than once sat cross-legged in the grass through a long summer 
morning and watched without touching while a poppy bud higher than 
my head slowly but visibly pushed off its cap, unfolded, and shook out 
like a banner in the sun its flaming vermilion petals. Other flowers 
we might gather as we pleased: myrtle and white violets from beneath 
the lilacs; the lilacs themselves, that bloomed so prodigally but 
for the most part beyond our reach; snowballs; hollyhock blossoms 
that, 
turned upside down, make pink-petticoated ladies; and the little, 
dark blue larkspur that scattered its seed everywhere.   More 
potent a charm to bring back that time of life than this record of a 
few pictures and a few remembered facts would be a catalogue of the minutiae 
which are of the very stuff of the mind, intrinsic, because they 
were known in the beginning not by the eye alone but by the hand that 
held them. Flowers, stones, and small creatures, living and dead. Pale 
yellow snapdragons that by pinching could be made to bite; seed-pods 
of the balsams that snapped like fire-crackers at a touch; red-and-yellow 
columbines whose round-tipped spurs were picked off and 
eaten 
for the honey in them; morning-glory buds which could be so grasped 
and squeezed that they burst like a blown-up paper bag; bright flowers 
from the trumpet vine that made "gloves" on the ends of ten 
waggling fingers. Fuzzy caterpillars, snails with their sensitive horns, 
struggling grasshoppers held by their long hind legs and commanded 
to "spit tobacco, spit". Dead fledgling birds, their squashed-looking 
nakedness and the odor of decay that clung to the hand when they 
had been buried in our graveyard in front of the purple flags. And 
the 
cast shell of a locust, straw-colored and transparent, weighing nothing, 
fragile but entire, with eyes like bubbles and a gaping slit down 
its back. Every morning early, in the summer, we searched the trunks 
of the trees as high as we could reach for the locust shells, carefully 
detached their hooked claws from the bark where they hung, and stabled 
them, a weird faery herd, in an angle between the high roots of the 
tulip tree, where no grass grew in the dense shade **h. We collected 
"lucky stones"- all the creamy translucent pebbles, worn smooth 
and round, that we could find in the driveway. When these had been 
pocketed, we could still spend a morning cracking open other pebbles 
for our delight in seeing how much prettier they were inside than their 
dull exteriors indicated. We showed them to each other and said "Would 
you have guessed **h"? Squatting on our haunches beside the 
flat stone we broke them on, we were safe behind the high closed gates 
at the end of the drive: safe from interruption and the observation 
and possible amusement of the passers-by. Thus shielded, we played 
many foolish games in comfortable unselfconsciousness; even when the 
fences became a part of the game- when a vine-embowered gate-post 
was the Sleeping Beauty's enchanted castle, or when Rapunzel let 
down her golden hair from beneath the crocketed spire, even then we paid 
little heed to those who went by on the path outside.   We enjoyed 
a paradoxical freedom when we were still too young for school. In 
the heat of the summer, the garden solitudes were ours alone; our 
elders stayed in the dark house or sat fanning on the front porch. They 
never troubled themselves about us while we were playing, because 
the fence formed such a definite boundary and "Don't go outside 
the gate" was a command so impossible of misinterpretation. We were 
not, however, entirely unacquainted with the varying aspects of the street. 
We were forbidden to swing on the gates, lest they sag on their 
hinges in a poor-white-trash way, but we could stand on them, when they 
were latched, rest our chins on the top, and stare and stare, committing 
to memory, quite unintentionally, all the details that lay before 
our eyes.   The street that is full now of traffic and parked 
cars then and for many years drowsed on an August afternoon in the shade 
of the curbside trees, and silence was a weight, almost palpable, 
in the air. Every slight sound that rose against that pressure fell 
away again, crushed beneath it. A hay-wagon moved slowly along the gutter, 
the top of it swept by the low boughs of the maple trees, and loose 
straws were left hanging tangled among the leaves. A wheel squeaked 
on a hub, was still, and squeaked again. If a child watched its progress 
he whispered, "Hay, hay, load of hay- make a wish and turn 
away", and then stared rigidly in the opposite direction until the 
sound of the horses' feet returned no more. When the hay wagon had 
gone, and an interval passed, a huckster's cart might turn the corner. 
The horse walked, the reins were slack, the huckster rode with bowed 
shoulders, his forearms across his knees. Sleepily, as if half-reluctant 
to break the silence, he lifted his voice: "Rhu-beb-ni-ice 
fresh rhu-<beb> today"! The lazy sing-song was spaced in time 
like the drone of a bumble-bee. No one seemed to hear him, no one heeded. 
The horse plodded on, and he repeated his call. It became so monotonous 
as to seem a part of the quietness. After his passage, the street 
was empty again. The sun moved slant-wise across the sky and down; 
the trees' shadows circled from street to sidewalk, from sidewalk 
to lawn. At four-o'clock, or four-thirty, the coming of the newsboy 
marked the end of the day; he tossed a paper toward every front 
door, and housewives came down to their steps to pick them up and read 
what their neighbors had been doing.   The streets of any county 
town were like this on any sunshiny afternoon in summer; they were 
like this fifty-odd years ago, and yesterday. But the fences were still 
in place fifty-odd years ago, and when we stood on the gate to look 
over, the sidewalk under our eyes was not cement but two rows of paving 
stones with grass between and on both sides. The curb was a line 
of stone laid edgewise in the dirt and tilted this way and that by frost 
in the ground or the roots of trees. Opposite every gate was a hitching 
post or a stone carriage-step, set with a rusty iron ring for tying 
a horse. The street was unpaved and rose steeply toward the center; 
it was mud in wet weather and dust, ankle-deep, in dry, and could 
be crossed only at the corner where there were stepping stones. It had 
a bucolic atmosphere that it has lost long since. The hoofmarks of 
cattle and the prints of bare feet in the mud or in the dust were as 
numerous as the traces of shod horses. Cows were kept in backyard barns, 
boys were hired to drive them to and from the pasture on the edge 
of town, and familiar to the ear, morning and evening, were the boys' 
coaxing voices, the thud of hooves, and the thwack of a stick on cowhide.

It is worth dwelling in some detail on the crisis of this story, 
because it brings together a number of characteristic elements and 
makes of them a curious, riddling compound obscurely but centrally significant 
for Mann's work.   The wife, Amra, and her lover are 
both savagely portrayed, she as incarnate sensuality, "voluptuous" 
and "indolent", possibly "a mischief maker", with "a kind 
of luxurious cunning" to set against her apparent simplicity, her "birdlike 
brain". La^utner, for his part, "belonged to the present-day 
race of small artists, who do not demand the utmost of themselves", 
and the bitter description of the type includes such epithets 
as "wretched little poseurs", the devastating indictment "they 
do not know how to be wretched decently and in order", and the somewhat 
extreme prophecy, so far not fulfilled: "They will be destroyed".

The trick these two play upon Jacoby reveals their want 
not simply of decency but of imagination as well. His appearance as 
Lizzy evokes not amusement but horror in the audience; it is a spectacle 
absolutely painful, an epiphany of the suffering flesh unredeemed 
by spirit, untouched by any spirit other than abasement and humiliation. 
At the same time the multiple transvestitism involved- the fat 
man as girl and as baby, as coquette pretending to be a baby- touches 
for a moment horrifyingly upon the secret sources of a life like Jacoby's, 
upon the sinister dreams which form the sources of any human 
life.   The music which La^utner has composed for this episode 
is for the most part "rather pretty and perfectly banal". But 
it is characteristic of him, we are told, "his little artifice", 
to be able to introduce "into a fairly vulgar and humorous piece of 
hackwork a sudden phrase of genuine creative art". And this occurs 
now, at the refrain of Jacoby's song- at the point, in fact, of 
the name "Lizzy"-; a modulation described as "almost a stroke 
of genius". "A miracle, a revelation, it was like a curtain suddenly 
torn away to reveal something nude". It is this modulation 
which reveals to Jacoby his own frightful abjection and, simultaneously, 
his wife's infidelity. By the same means he perceives this fact 
as having communicated itself to the audience; he collapses, and dies.

In the work of every artist, I suppose, there may be found 
one or more moments which strike the student as absolutely decisive, 
ultimately emblematic of what it is all about; not less strikingly 
so for being mysterious, as though some deeply hidden constatation of 
thoughts were enciphered in a single image, a single moment. So here. 
The horrifying humor, the specifically sexual embarrassment of the joke 
gone wrong, the monstrous image of the fat man dressed up as a whore 
dressing up as a baby; the epiphany of that quivering flesh; the 
bringing together around it of the secret liaison between indolent, 
mindless sensuality and sharp, shrewd talent, cleverness with an occasional 
touch of genius (which, however, does not know "how to attack 
the problem of suffering"); the miraculous way in which music, revelation 
and death are associated in a single instant- all this seems 
a triumph of art, a rather desperate art, in itself; beyond itself, 
also, 
it evokes numerous and distant resonances from the entire body of Mann's 
work.   When I try to work out my reasons for feeling that 
this passage is of critical significance, I come up with the following 
ideas, which I shall express very briefly here and revert to in 
a later essay.   Love is the crucial dilemma of experience for Mann's 
heroes. The dramatic construction of his stories characteristically 
turns on a situation in which someone is simultaneously compelled 
and forbidden to love. The release, the freedom, involved in loving 
another is either terribly difficult or else absolutely impossible; 
and the motion toward it brings disaster.   This prohibition 
on love has an especially poignant relation to art; it is particularly 
the artist (Tonio Kro^ger, Aschenbach, Leverku^hn) who suffers 
from it. The specific analogy to the dilemma of love is the problem 
of the "breakthrough" in the realm of art.   Again, the sufferings 
and disasters produced by any transgression against the commandment 
not to love are almost invariably associated in one way or another 
with childhood, with the figure of a child.   Finally, the 
theatrical (and perversely erotic) notions of dressing up, cosmetics, 
disguise, and especially change of costume (or singularity of costume, 
as with Cipolla), are characteristically associated with the catastrophes 
of Mann's stories.   We shall return to these statements 
and deal with them more fully as the evidence for them accumulates. 
For the present it is enough to note that in the grotesque figure of 
Jacoby, at the moment of his collapse, all these elements come together 
in prophetic parody. Professionally a lawyer, that is to say associated 
with dignity, reserve, discipline, with much that is essentially 
middle-class, he is compelled by an impossible love to exhibit himself 
dressed up, disguised- that is, paradoxically, revealed- as a 
child, and, worse, as a whore masquerading as a child. That this abandonment 
takes place on a stage, during an 'artistic' performance, 
is enough to associate Jacoby with art, and to bring down upon him the 
punishment for art; that is, he is suspect, guilty, punishable, as 
is anyone in Mann's stories who produces <illusion>, and this is 
true even though the constant elements of the artist-nature, technique, 
magic, guilt and suffering, are divided in this story between Jacoby 
and La^utner.   It appears that the dominant tendency of 
Mann's early tales, however pictorial or even picturesque the surface, 
is already toward the symbolic, the emblematic, the expressionistic. 
In a certain perfectly definite way, the method and the theme of his 
stories are one and the same.   Something of this can be learned 
from "The Way to the Churchyard" (1901), an anecdote about 
an old failure whose fit of anger at a passing cyclist causes him to die 
of a stroke or seizure. There is no more "plot" than that; only 
slightly more, perhaps, than a newspaper account of such an incident 
would give. The artistic interest, then, lies in what the encounter 
may be made to represent, in the power of some central significance 
to draw the details into relevance and meaningfulness.   The first 
sentence, with its platitudinous irony, announces an emblematic intent: 
"The way to the churchyard ran along beside the highroad, ran 
beside it all the way to the end; that is to say, to the churchyard". 
And the action is consistently presented with regard for this distinction. 
The highroad, one might say at first, belongs to life, while 
the way to the churchyard belongs to death. But that is too simple, 
and won't hold up. As the first sentence suggests, both roads belong 
to death in the end. But the highroad, according to the description 
of its traffic, belongs to life as it is lived in unawareness of death, 
while the way to the churchyard belongs to some other sort of life: 
a suffering form, an existence wholly comprised in the awareness 
of death. Thus, on the highroad, a troop of soldiers "marched in their 
own dust and sang", while on the footpath one man walks alone.

This man's isolation is not merely momentary, it is permanent. 
He is a widower, his three children are dead, he has no one left on 
earth; also he is a drunk, and has lost his job on that account. His 
name is Praisegod Piepsam, and he is rather fully described as to 
his clothing and physiognomy in a way which relates him to a sinister 
type in the author's repertory- he is a forerunner of those enigmatic 
strangers in "Death in Venice", for example, who represent 
some combination of cadaver, exotic, and psychopomp.   This strange 
person quarrels with a cyclist because the latter is using the path 
rather than the highroad. The cyclist, a sufficiently commonplace 
young fellow, is not named but identified simply as "Life"- that 
and a license number, which Piepsam uses in addressing him. "Life" 
points out that "everybody uses this path", and starts to ride 
on. Piepsam tries to stop him by force, receives a push in the chest 
from "Life", and is left standing in impotent and growing rage, 
while a crowd begins to gather. His rage assumes a religious form; 
that is, on the basis of his own sinfulness and abject wretchedness, 
Piepsam becomes a prophet who in his ecstasy and in the name of God 
imprecates doom on Life- not only the cyclist now, but the audience, 
the world, as well: "all you light-headed breed". This passion 
brings on a fit which proves fatal. Then an ambulance comes along, 
and they drive Praisegod Piepsam away.   This is simple enough, 
but several more points of interest may be mentioned as relevant. The 
season, between spring and summer, belongs to life in its carefree 
aspect. Piepsam's fatal rage arises not only because <he> cannot 
stop the cyclist, but also because God will not stop him; as Piepsam 
says to the crowd in his last moments: "His justice is not of 
this world".   Life is further characterized, in antithesis to 
Piepsam, as animal: the image of a dog, which appears at several 
places, is first given as the criterion of amiable, irrelevant interest 
aroused by life considered simply as a spectacle: a dog in a wagon 
is "admirable", "a pleasure to contemplate"; another wagon 
has no dog, and therefore is "devoid of interest". Piepsam calls 
the cyclist "cur" and "puppy" among other things, and at the crisis 
of his fit a little fox-terrier stands before him and howls into 
his face. The ambulance is drawn by two "charming" little horses.

Piepsam is not, certainly, religious in any conventional sense. 
His religiousness is intimately, or dialectically, connected with 
his sinfulness; the two may in fact be identical. His unsuccessful 
strivings to give up drink are represented as religious strivings; 
he keeps a bottle in a wardrobe at home, and "before this wardrobe Praisegod 
Piepsam had before now gone literally on his knees, and in 
his wrestlings had bitten his tongue- and still in the end capitulated".

The cyclist, by contrast, blond and blue-eyed, is simply 
unreflective, unproblematic Life, "blithe and carefree". "He 
made no claims to belong to the great and mighty of this earth".

Piepsam is grotesque, a disturbing parody; his end is ridiculous 
and trivial. He is "a man raving mad on the way to the churchyard". 
But he is more interesting than the others, the ones who come from 
the highroad to watch him, more interesting than Life considered 
as a cyclist. And if I have gone into so much detail about so small 
a work, that is because it is also so typical a work, representing the 
germinal form of a conflict which remains essential in Mann's writing: 
the crude sketch of Piepsam contains, in its critical, destructive 
and self-destructive tendencies, much that is enlarged and illuminated 
in the figures of, for instance, Naphta and Leverku^hn.

In method as well as in theme this little anecdote with its details 
selected as much for expressiveness and allegory as for "realism", 
anticipates a kind of musical composition, as well as a kind of fictional 
composition, in which, as Leverku^hn says, "there shall be 
nothing unthematic". It resembles, too, pictures such as Du^rer 
and Bruegel did, in which all that looks at first to be solely pictorial 
proves on inspection to be also literary, the representation of a 
proverb, for example, or a deadly sin.   "Gladius Dei" (1902) 
resembles "The Way to the Churchyard" in its representation 
of a conflict between light and dark, between "Life" and a spirit 
of criticism, negation, melancholy, but it goes considerably further 
in characterizing the elements of this conflict.   The monk Savonarola, 
brought over from the Renaissance and placed against the background 
of Munich at the turn of the century, protests against the luxurious 
works displayed in the art-shop of M& Bluthenzweig; in 
particular against a Madonna portrayed in a voluptuous style and modeled, 
according to gossip, upon the painter's mistress. Hieronymus, 
like Piepsam, makes his protest quite in vain, and his rejection, though 
not fatal, is ridiculous and humiliating; he is simply thrown out 
of the shop by the porter. On the street outside, Hieronymus envisions 
a holocaust of the vanities of this world, such a burning of artistic 
and erotic productions as his namesake actually brought to pass in 
Florence, and prophetically he issues his curse: "<Gladius Dei 
super terram cito et velociter>". 
The "reality" to which they respond is rationally empty and their 
art is an imitation of the inescapable powerfulness of this unknown and 
empty world. Their artistic rationale is given to the witness of unreason.

These polar concerns (imitation vs& formalism) reflect 
a philosophical and religious situation which has been developing 
over a long period of time. The breakdown of classical structures of 
meaning in all realms of western culture has given rise to several generations 
of artists who have documented the disintegrative processes. 
Thus the image of man has suffered complete fragmentation in personal 
and spiritual qualities, and complete objectification in sub-human and 
quasi-mechanistic powers. The image of the world tends to reflect the 
hostility and indifference of man or else to dissolve into empty spaces 
and overwhelming mystery. The image of God has simply disappeared. 
All such imitations of negative quality have given rise to a compensatory 
response in the form of a heroic and highly individualistic humanism: 
if man can neither know nor love reality as it is, he can at 
least invent an artistic "reality" which is its own world and which 
can speak to man of purely personal and subjective qualities capable 
of being known and worthy of being loved. The person of the artist 
becomes a final bastion of meaning in a world rendered meaningless by 
the march of events and the decay of classical religious and philosophical 
systems.   Whatever pole of this contrast one emphasizes and 
whatever the tension between these two approaches to understanding 
the artistic imagination, it will be readily seen that they are not mutually 
exclusive, that they belong together. Without the decay of a 
sense of objective reference (except as the imitation of mystery), the 
stress on subjective invention would never have been stimulated into 
being. And although these insights into the nature of art may be in themselves 
insufficient for a thoroughgoing philosophy of art, their peculiar 
authenticity in this day and age requires that they be taken seriously 
and gives promise that from their very substance, new and valid 
chapters in the philosophy of art may be written. For better or worse 
we cannot regard "imitation" in the arts in the simple mode of 
classical rationalism or detached realism. A broader concept of imitation 
is needed, one which acknowledges that true invention is important, 
that the artist's creativity in part transcends the non-artistic 
causal factors out of which it arises. On the other hand, we cannot regard 
artistic invention as pure, uncaused, and unrelated to the times 
in which it occurs. We need a doctrine of imitation to save us from 
the solipsism and futility of pure formalism. Accordingly, it is the 
aim of this essay to advance a new theory of imitation (which I shall 
call <mimesis> in order to distinguish it from earlier theories of 
imitation) and a new theory of invention (which I shall call <symbol> 
for reasons to be stated hereafter). 

#THE MIMETIC IMAGINATION IN 
THE ARTS#

The word "mimesis" ("imitation") is usually associated 
with Plato and Aristotle. For Plato, "imitation" is twice 
removed from reality, being a poor copy of physical appearance, which 
in itself is a poor copy of ideal essence. All artistic and mythological 
representations, therefore, are "imitations of imitations" and 
are completely superseded by the truth value of "dialectic", the 
proper use of the inquiring intellect. In Plato's judgment, the 
arts play a meaningful role in society only in the education of the young, 
prior to the full development of their intellectual powers. Presupposed 
in Plato's system is a doctrine of levels of insight, in which 
a certain kind of detached understanding is alone capable of penetrating 
to the most sublime wisdom. Aristotle also tended to stratify all 
aspects of human nature and activity into levels of excellence and, 
like Plato, he put the pure and unimpassioned intellect on the top level. 
The <Poetics>, in affirming that all human arts are "modes 
of imitation", gives a more serious role to artistic mimesis than 
did Plato. But Aristotle kept the principle of levels and even augmented 
it by describing in the <Poetics> what kinds of character and 
action must be imitated if the play is to be a vehicle of serious and 
important human truths. For both Plato and Aristotle artistic mimesis, 
in contrast to the power of dialectic, is relatively incapable of 
expressing the character of fundamental reality.   The central 
concern of Erich Auerbach's impressive volume called <Mimesis> 
is to describe the shift from a classic theory of imitation (based upon 
a recognition of levels of truth) to a Christian theory of imitation 
in which the levels are dissolved. Following the theme of Incarnation 
in the Gospels, the Christian artist and critic sees in the most 
commonplace and ordinary events "figures" of divine power and reality. 
Here artistic realism involves the audience in an impassioned participation 
in events whose overtones and implications are transcendent. 
Artistic mimesis under Christian influence records the involvement 
of all persons, however humble, in a divine drama. The artist, unlike 
the philosopher, is not a removed observer aiming at neutral and rarified 
high levels of abstraction. He is the conveyor of a sacred reality 
by which he has been grasped. I have chosen to use the word "mimesis" 
in its Christian rather than its classic implications and 
to discover in the concrete forms of both art and myth powers of theological 
expression which, as in the Christian mind, are the direct consequence 
of involvement in historical experience, which are not reserved, 
as in the Greek mind, only to moments of theoretical reflection.

In the first instance, "mimesis" is here used to mean the 
recalling of experience in terms of vivid images rather than in terms 
of abstract ideas or conventional designations. By "image" is meant 
not only a visual presentation, but also remembered sensations of any 
of the five senses plus the feelings which are immediately conjoined 
therewith. This is the primary function of the imagination operating 
in the absence of the original experiential stimulus by which the images 
were first appropriated. Mimesis is the nearest possible thing to 
the actual re-living of experience, in which the imagining person recovers 
through images something of the force and depth characteristic 
of experience itself. The images themselves, like their counterparts 
in experience, are not neutral qualities to be surveyed dispassionately; 
they are fields of force exerting a unique influence on the sensibilities 
and a unique relatedness to one another. They bring an inextricable 
component of value within themselves, with attractions and repulsions 
native to their own quality. As in experience one is seized by 
given entities and their interrelations and is forced to respond in 
value feelings to them, so one is similarly seized in the mimetic presentation 
of images. Mimesis here is not to be confused with literalism 
or realism in the conventional sense. A word taken in its dictionary 
meaning, a photographic image of a recognizable object, the mere picturing 
of a "scene" tends to lose experiential vividness and to connote 
such conventional abstractions as to invite neutral reception without 
the incitement of value feelings. Similarly experience itself can 
be conventionalized so that people react to certain preconceived clues 
for behavior without awareness of the vitality of their experiential 
field. A truly vivid imagination moves beyond the conventional recollection 
to a sense of immediacy.   The mimetic character of the 
imaginative consciousness tends to express itself in the presentation 
of artistic forms and materials. When words can be used in a more fresh 
and primitive way so that they strike with the force of sights and 
sounds, when tones of sound and colors of paint and the carven shape 
all strike the sensibilities with an undeniable force of data in and of 
themselves, compelling the observer into an attitude of attention, all 
this imitates the way experience itself in its deepest character strikes 
upon the door of consciousness and clamors for entrance. These 
are like the initial ways in which the world forces itself upon the self 
and thrusts the self into decision and choice. The presence of genuine 
mimesis in art is marked by the persistence with which the work 
demands attention and compels valuation even though it is but vaguely 
understood.   Underlying these conceptions of mimesis are certain 
presuppositions concerning the nature of primary human experience which 
require some exposition before the main argument can proceed. Experience 
is not seen, as it is in classical rationalism, as presenting 
us initially with clear and distinct objects simply located in space 
and 
registering their character, movements, and changes on the <tabula 
rasa> of an uninvolved intellect. Neither is primary experience understood 
according to the attitude of modern empiricism in which nothing 
is thought to be received other than signals of sensory qualities producing 
their responses in the appropriate sense organs. Primary feelings 
of the world come neither as a collection of clearly known objects 
(houses, trees, implements, etc&) nor a collection of isolated and 
neutral sensory qualities. In contrast to all this, primary data are 
data of a self involved in environing processes and powers.   The 
most primitive feelings are rudimentary value feelings, both positive 
and negative: a desire to appropriate this or that part of the environment 
into oneself; a desire to avoid and repel this or that other 
part. These desires presuppose a sense of causally efficacious powers 
in which one is involved, some working for one's good, others threatening 
ill. Gone is the <tabula rasa> of the mind. In its place 
is a passionate consciousness grasped and molded to feelings of positive 
or negative values even as the actions of one's life are determined 
by constellations of process in which one is caught.   The principal 
defender of this view of primary experience as "causal efficacy" 
is Alfred North Whitehead. Our most elemental and unavoidable 
impressions, he says, are those of being involved in a large arena of 
powers which have a longer past than our own, which are interrelated 
in a vast movement through the present toward the future. We feel the 
quality of these powers initially as in some degree wholesome or threatening. 
Later abstractive and rational processes may indicate errors 
of judgment in these apprehensions of value, but the apprehensions themselves 
are the primary stuff of experience. It takes a great deal 
of abstraction to free oneself from the primitive impression of larger 
unities of power and influence and to view one's world simply as a 
collection of sense data arranged in such and such sequence and pattern, 
devoid of all power to move the feelings and actions except in so far 
as they present themselves for inspection. Whitehead is here questioning 
David Hume's understanding of the nature of experience; he 
is questioning, also, every epistemology which stems from Hume's 
presupposition 
that experience is merely sense data in abstraction from 
causal efficacy, and that causal efficacy is something intellectually 
imputed to the world, not directly perceived. What Hume calls "sensation" 
is what Whitehead calls "perception in the mode of presentational 
immediacy" which is a sophisticated abstraction from perception 
in the mode of causal efficacy. As long as perception is seen as 
composed only of isolated sense data, most of the quality and interconnectedness 
of existence loses its objectivity, becomes an invention 
of consciousness, and the result is a philosophical scepticism. Whitehead 
contends that the human way of understanding existence as a unity 
of interlocking and interdependent processes which constitute each other 
and which cause each other to be and not to be is possible only because 
the basic form of such an understanding, for all its vagueness and 
tendency to mistake the detail, is initially <given> in the way man 
feels the world. In this respect experience is broader and full of 
a richer variety of potential meanings than the mind of man or any of 
his arts or culture are capable of making clear and distinct. 
A chief characteristic of experience in the mode of causal efficacy is 
one of derivation from the past. Both I and my feelings come up out 
of a chain of events that fan out into the past into sources that are 
ultimately very unlike the entity which I now am. 
After only eighteen years of non-interference, there were already indications 
of melioration, though "in a slight degree", to be sure.

There were more indications by the mid-twentieth century. I leave 
it to the statisticians to say what they were, but I noticed several 
a few years ago, during an automobile ride from Memphis to Hattiesburg. 
In town after town my companion pointed out the Negro school 
and the White school, and in every instance the former made a better 
appearance (it was newer, for one thing). It really looked as if a 
change of the sort predicted by Booker T& Washington had been going 
on. But with the renewal of interference in 1954 (as with its beginning 
in 1835), the improvement was impaired.   For over a hundred 
years Southerners have felt that the North was picking on them. 
It's infuriating, this feeling that one is being picked on, continually, 
constantly. By what right of superior virtue, Southerners ask, 
do the people of the North do this? The traditional strategy of the 
South has been to expose the vices of the North, to demonstrate that 
the North possessed no superior virtue, to "show the world that" 
(as James's Christopher Newman said to <his> adversaries) "however 
bad I may be, you're not quite the people to say it".

In the pre-Civil War years, the South argued that the slave was 
not less humanely treated than the factory worker of the North. At 
the present time, the counter-attack takes the line that there's no 
more of the true <spirit> of "integration" in the North than 
in the South. The line is a pretty good one.   People talk about 
"the law of the land". The expression has become quite a cliche. 
But people can't be made to integrate, socialize (the two are inseparable 
by Southern standards) by law.   I was having lunch not 
long ago (apologies to N& V& Peale) with three distinguished 
historians (one specializing in the European Middle Ages, one in American 
history, and one in the Far East), and I asked them if they 
could name instances where the general mores had been radically changed 
with "deliberate speed, majestic instancy" (Francis Thompson's 
words for the Hound of <Heaven's> pursuit) by judicial fiat. 
They didn't seem to be able to think of any.   A Virginia 
judge a while back cited a Roman jurist to the effect that ten years 
might be a reasonable length of time for such a change. But I suspect 
that the old Roman was referring to change made under military occupation- 
the sort of change which Tacitus was talking about when he 
said, "They make a desert, and call it peace" ("Solitudinem faciunt, 
pacem appellant".).

Moreover, the law of the land is not 
irrevocable; it can be changed; it has been, many times. Mr& 
Justice Taney's Dred Scott decision in 1857 was unpopular in the 
North, and soon became a dead letter. Prohibition was the law of the 
land, but it was unpopular (how many of us oldsters took up drinking 
in prohibition days, drinking was so gay, so fashionable, especially 
in the sophisticated Northeast!) and was repealed. The cliche loses 
its talismanic virtue in the light of a little history.   The 
Declaration of Independence says that "governments derive their 
just powers from the consent of the governed". The phrase "consent 
of the governed" needs a hard look. How do we define it? Is the 
consent of the governed a numerical majority? Calhoun dealt with 
this question in his "Disquisition on Government".   To guard 
against the tyranny of a numerical majority, Calhoun developed his 
theory of "concurrent majority", which, he said, "by giving to 
each portion of the community which may be unequally affected by the 
action of government, a negative on the others, prevents all partial 
or local legislation". Who will say that our country is even now a 
homogeneous community? that regional peculiarities do not still exist? 
that the Court order does not unequally affect the Southern region? 
Who will deny that in a vast portion of the South the Federal 
action is incompatible with the Jeffersonian concept of "the consent 
of the governed"?   Circumstances alter cases. A friend 
of mine in New Mexico said the Court order had caused no particular 
trouble out there, that all had gone as merry as a marriage bell. He 
seemed a little surprised that it should have caused any particular 
trouble anywhere. I murmured something about a possible difference between 
New Mexico's history and Mississippi's.   One can meet 
with aloofness almost anywhere: the Thank-Heaven-We're-not-Involved 
viewpoint, It Doesn't Affect Us! Southern Liberals 
(there are a good many)- especially if they're rich- often exhibit 
blithe insouciance. The trouble here is that it's almost too easy 
to take the high moral ground when it doesn't cost you anything. 
You've already sent your daughter to Miss ~X's select academy 
for girls and your son to Mr& ~Y's select academy for boys, and 
you can be as liberal as you please with strict impunity. If there's 
no suitable academy in your own neighborhood, there's always New 
England. New England academies welcome fugitives from the provinces, 
South as well as West. They may even enroll a colored student 
or two for show, though he usually turns out to be from Thailand, or 
any place other than the American South. It would be interesting to 
know how much "integration" there is in the famous, fashionable colleges 
and prep schools of New England. A recent newspaper report 
said there were five Negroes in the 1960 graduating class of nearly one 
thousand at Yale; that is, about one-half of one per cent, which 
looks pretty "tokenish" to me, especially in an institution which 
professes to be "national".   I must confess that I prefer 
the Liberal who is personally affected, who is willing to send his own 
children to a mixed school as proof of his faith. I leave out of account 
the question of the best interests of the children, the question 
of what their best interests really are. I'm talking about the grand 
manner of the Liberal- North <and> South- who is not affected 
personally. If these people were denied a voice (do they have a 
moral right to a voice?), what voices would be left? Who is involved 
<willy nilly?> Well, after everybody has followed the New England 
pattern of segregating one's children into private schools, 
only the poor folks are left. And it is precisely in this poorer economic 
class that one finds, and has always found, the most racial friction. 
##

A dear, respected friend of mine, who like myself grew up 
in the South and has spent many years in New England, said to me 
not long ago: "I can't forgive New England for rejecting 
all complicity". Being a teacher of American literature, I remembered 
Whittier's "Massachusetts to Virginia", where he said: 
"But that one dark loathsome burden ye must stagger with alone, 
And reap the bitter harvest which ye yourselves have sown". There 
is a legend (Hawthorne records it in his "English Notebooks". and 
one finds it again in Thomas Nelson Page) to the effect that the 
<Mayflower> 
on its second voyage brought a cargo of Negro slaves. Whether 
historically a fact or not, the legend has a certain symbolic value.

<Complicity> is an embarrassing word. It is something 
which most of us try to get out from under. Like the cowboy in Stephen 
Crane's "Blue Hotel", we run around crying, "Well, I 
didn't do anything, did I"? Robert Penn Warren puts it this 
way in "Brother to Dragons": "The recognition of complicity 
is the beginning of innocence", where innocence, I think, means 
about the same thing as redemption. A man must be able to say, "Father, 
I have sinned", 
or there is no hope for him. Lincoln understood 
this better than most when he said in his "Second Inaugural" 
that God "gives to both North and South this terrible war, as the 
woe due to those by whom the offense came". He also spoke of "the 
wealth piled by the bondsman's two hundred and fifty years in unrequited 
toil". Lincoln was historian and economist enough to know that 
a substantial portion of this wealth had accumulated in the hands of 
the descendants of New Englanders engaged in the slave trade. After 
how many generations is such wealth (mounting all the while through 
the manipulations of high finance) purified of taint? It is a question 
which New Englanders long ago put out of their minds. But didn't 
they get off too easy? The slaves never shared in <their> profits, 
while they did share, in a very real sense, in the profits of the 
slave-owners: they were fed, clothed, doctored, and so forth; they 
were the beneficiaries of responsible, paternalistic care. 
Emerson- Platonist, idealist, doctrinaire- sounded a high Transcendental 
note in his "Boston Hymn", delivered in 1863 in the Boston Music 
Hall amidst thundering applause: "Pay ransom to the owner and 
fill the bag to the brim. Who is the owner? The slave is owner, 
And ever was. Pay him"! It is the abstractionism, the unrealism, 
of the pure idealist. It ignores the sordid financial aspects (quite 
conveniently, too, for his audience, who could indulge in moral indignation 
without visible, or even conscious, discomfort, their money 
from the transaction having been put away long ago in a good antiseptic 
brokerage). Like Pilate, they had washed their hands. But can one, 
really? Can God be mocked, ever, in the long run?   New 
Englanders were a bit sensitive on the subject of their complicity in 
Negro slavery at the time of the drafting of the Declaration of Independence, 
as Jefferson explained in his "Autobiography": "

The clause reprobating the enslaving the inhabitants of Africa 
was struck out in complaisance to South Carolina and Georgia, who 
had never attempted to restrain the importation of slaves, and who on 
the contrary still wished to continue it. Our Northern brethren also 
I believe felt a little tender under those censures; for though their 
people had very few slaves themselves, yet they had been pretty considerable 
carriers of them to others".   But that was a long 
time ago. The New England conscience became desensitized. George 
W& Cable (naturalized New Englander), writing in 1889 from "Paradise 
Road, Northampton" (lovely symbolic name), agitated continuously 
the "<Southern> question". It was nice to be able to isolate 
it. ##

New England, as everyone knows, has long been schoolmaster 
to the Nation. There one finds concentrated in a comparatively 
small area the chief universities, colleges, and preparatory schools 
of the United States. Why should this be so? It is true that New 
England, more than any other section, was dedicated to education 
from the start. But I think that something more than this is involved.

How did it happen, for example, that the state university, 
that great symbol of American democracy, failed to flourish in New England 
as it did in other parts of the country? Isn't it a bit odd 
that the three states of Southern New England (Massachusetts, Connecticut, 
and Rhode Island) have had state institutions of university 
status only in the very recent past, these institutions having previously 
been ~A+~M colleges? Was it supposed, perchance, that 
~A+~M (vocational training, that is) was quite sufficient for the 
immigrant class which flooded that part of the New England world in 
the post-Civil War period, the immigrants having been brought in from 
Southern Europe, to work in the mills, to make up for the labor 
shortage caused by migration to the West? Is it not ironical that 
Roger Williams's state, Rhode Island, should have been the very 
last of the forty-eight to establish a state university? The state 
universities of Maine, New Hampshire, And Vermont are older and more 
"respectable"; they had less immigration to contend with.

A Yale historian, writing a few years ago in <The Yale Review>, 
said: "We in New England have long since segregated our children". 
He was referring not only to the general college situation 
but more especially to the preparatory schools. And what a galaxy of 
those adorns that fair land! I don't propose to go into their history, 
but I have one or two surmises. One is that they were established, 
or gained eminence, under pressure provided by these same immigrants, 
from whom the old families wished to segregate their children. 
In the early days of a homogeneous population, the public school was 
quite satisfactory.

AMONG THE RECIPIENTS of the Nobel Prize for Literature 
more than half are practically unknown to readers of English. Of these 
there are surely few that would be more rewarding discoveries than 
Verner von Heidenstam, the Swedish poet and novelist who received 
the award in 1916 and whose centennial was celebrated two years ago. 
Equally a master of prose and verse, he recreates the glory of Sweden 
in the past and continues it into the present. In the following sketch 
we shall present a brief outline of his life and let him as much as 
possible speak for himself.   Heidenstam was born in 1859, of 
a prosperous family. On his father's side he was of German descent, 
on his mother's he came of the old Swedish nobility. The family 
estate was situated near Vadstena on Lake Va^ttern in south central 
Sweden. It is a lonely, rather desolate region, but full of legendary 
and historic associations. As a boy in a local school he was shy 
and solitary, absorbed in his fondness for nature and his visions of 
Sweden's ancient glory. He liked to fancy himself as a chieftain 
and to dress for the part. Being somewhat delicate in health, at the 
age of sixteen he was sent to Southern Europe, for which he at once 
developed a passion, so that he spent nearly all of the following ten 
years abroad, at first in Italy, then in Greece, Egypt, Asia Minor, 
and Palestine. In one of his summers at home he married, to the 
great disapproval of his father, who objected because of his extreme youth.

Deciding to become a painter, he entered the studio of Gerome 
in Paris, where he enjoyed the life of the artists, but soon found 
that whatever talent he might have did not lie in that direction. 
He gives us an account of this in his lively and humorous poem, "The 
Happy Artists". "I scanned the world through printed symbol 
swart, And through the beggar's rags I strove to see The inner man. 
I looked unceasingly With my cold mind and with my burning heart". 
In this final line, we have the key to his nature. Few writers 
have better understood their deepest selves. Heidenstam could never be 
satisfied by surface. It may, however, be noted that his gift for color 
and imagery must have been greatly stimulated by his stay in Paris.

The first result of Heidenstam's long sojourn abroad was 
a volume of poems, <Pilgrimage and Wander-Years (Vallfart och vandringsar),> 
published in 1888. It was a brilliant debut, so much so 
indeed that it aroused a new vitality in the younger poets, as did Byron's 
<Childe Harold>. Professor Fredrik Bo^o^k, Sweden's 
foremost critic of the period, acclaims it as follows: "In 
this we have the verse of a painter; strongly colorful, plastic, racy, 
vivid. In a bold, sometimes careless, form there is nothing academic; 
all is seen and felt and experienced, the observation is sharp 
and the imagination lively. The young poet-painter reproduces the French 
life of the streets; he tells stories of the Thousand and One 
Nights, and conjures up before us the bazaars of Damascus. In the 
care-free indolence of the East he sees the last reflection of the 
old happy existence, and for that reason he loves it. And yet amid all 
the gay hedonism in <Pilgrimage and Wander-Years> is a cycle of 
short poems, "Thoughts in Loneliness", filled with brooding, melancholy, 
and sombre longing".   Of the longer pieces of the volume 
none is so memorable as "Nameless and Immortal", which at 
once took rank among the finest poems ever written in the Swedish language. 
It celebrates the unknown architect who designed the temple of 
Neptune at Paestum, next to the Parthenon the noblest example of Grecian 
classic style now in existence. On the eve of his return to their 
native Naxos he speaks with his wife of the masterpiece which rises 
before them in its completed perfection. The supreme object of their 
lives is now fulfilled, says the wife, her husband has achieved immortality. 
Not so, he answers, it is not the architect but the temple 
that is immortal. "The man's true reputation is his work".

The short poems grouped at the end of the volume as "Thoughts 
in Loneliness" is, as Professor Bo^o^k indicated, in sharp contrast 
with the others. It consists of fragmentary personal revelations, 
such as "The Spark": "There is a spark dwells deep within 
my soul. To get it out into the daylight's glow Is my life's 
aim both first and last, the whole. It slips away, it burns and tortures 
me. That little spark is all the wealth I know, That little spark 
is my life's misery". A dominant motive is the poet's longing 
for his homeland and its boyhood associations: "Not men-folk, but 
the fields where I would stray, The stones where as a child I used 
to play". He is utterly disappointed in himself and in the desultory 
life he has been leading. What he really wants is to find "a 
sacred cause" to which he can honestly devote himself. This restless 
individualism found its answer when he returned to live nearly all 
the rest of his life in Sweden. His cause was to commemorate the glory 
of her past and to incite her people to perpetuate it in the present.

He did not, however, find himself at once. His next major 
work, completed in 1892, was a long fantastic epic in prose, entitled 
<Hans Alienus,> which Professor Bo^o^k describes as a monument 
on the grave of his carefree and indolent youth. The hero, who is 
himself, is represented as a pilgrim in the storied lands of the East, 
a sort of Faustus type, who, to quote from Professor Bo^o^k again, 
"even in the pleasure gardens of Sardanapalus can not cease from 
his painful search after the meaning of life. He is driven back by 
his yearning to the wintry homeland of his fathers in the forest of 
Tiveden".   From this time on Heidenstam proceeded to find his 
deeper self. By the death of his father in 1888 he had come into possession 
of the family estate and had re-assumed its traditions. He 
did not, however, settle back into acquiescence with things as they were. 
Like his friend and contemporary August Strindberg he had little 
patience with collective mediocrity. He saw Sweden as a country of 
smug and narrow provincialism, indifferent to the heroic spirit of its 
former glory. Strindberg's remedy for this condition was to tear 
down the old structures and build anew from the ground up. Heidenstam's 
conception, on the contrary, was to revive the present by the memories 
of the past. ##

Whether in prose or poetry, all of Heidenstam's 
later work was concerned with Sweden. With the first of a group 
of historical novels, <The Charles Men (Karolinerna)>, published 
in 1897-8, he achieved the masterpiece of his career. In scope 
and power it can only be compared to Tolstoy's <War and Peace>. 
About one-third as long, it is less intimate and detailed, but better 
coordinated, more concise and more dramatic. Though it centers around 
the brilliant and enigmatic figure of Charles /12,, the true hero 
is not finally the king himself. Hence the title of the book, referring 
to the soldiers and subjects of the king; on the fatal battlefield 
of Poltava, to quote from the novel, "the wreath he twined for 
himself slipped down upon his people".   <The Charles Men> 
consists not of a connected narrative but of a group of short stories, 
each depicting a special phase of the general subject. Somewhat uneven 
in interest for an average reader, eight or ten of these are among 
the finest of their kind in literature. They comprise a great variety 
of scene and interest: grim episodes of war, idyllic interludes, superb 
canvases of world-shaking events, and delightfully humorous sketches 
of odd characters. The general effect is tragic. Almost nothing 
is said of Charles' spectacular victories, the central theme being 
the heroic loyalty of the Swedish people to their idolized king in misfortune 
and defeat.   To carry out this exalted conception the 
author has combined the vivid realism and imaginative power we have noticed 
in his early poetry and carried them out on a grand scale. His 
peculiar gift, as had been suggested before, is his intensity. George 
Meredith has said that fervor is the core of style. Of few authors 
is this more true than of Heidenstam. <The Charles Men> has a tremendous 
range of characters, of common folk even more than of major 
figures. The career of Charles /12, is obviously very similar to that 
of Napoleon. His ideal was Alexander of Macedon, as Napoleon's 
was Julius Caesar. His purpose, however, was not to establish an 
empire, but to assert the principle of divine justice. Each aspired 
to be a god in human form, but with each it was a different kind of god. 
Each failed catastrophically in an invasion of Russia and each brought 
ruin on the country that worshipped him. Each is still glorified 
as a national hero.   The first half of <The Charles Men,> 
ending on the climax of the battle of Poltava in 1709, is more dramatically 
coherent than the second. After the collapse of that desperate 
and ill-fated campaign the character of the king degenerated for a 
time into a futility that was not merely pitiable but often ridiculous. 
Like Napoleon, he was the worst of losers. There are, however, some 
wonderful chapters at the beginning of the second part, concerning 
the reactions of the Swedes in adversity. Then more than ever before 
did they show their fortitude and patient cheerfulness. This comes 
out in "When the Bells Ring", which describes the rallying of the 
peasants in southern Sweden to repel an invasion by the Danes.

In "The King's Ride", Charles breaks out of a long period 
of petulance and inertia, regains his old self, escapes from Turkey, 
and finally reaches his own land after an absence of eighteen years. 
He finds it in utter misery and desolation. All his people ask for 
is no more war. But he plunges into yet another, this time with Norway, 
and is killed in an assault on the fortress of Fredrikshall, being 
only thirty-six years of age when he died. He had become king at fifteen.

Then suddenly there was a tremendous revulsion of popular 
feeling. From being a hated tyrant and madman he was now the symbol 
of all that was noblest and best in the history of Sweden. This is 
brought out in the next to last chapter of the book, "A Hero's 
Funeral", written in the form of an impassioned prose poem. Slowly 
the procession of warriors and statesmen passes through the snow beside 
the black water and into the brilliantly lighted cathedral, the shrine 
of so many precious memories. The guns are fired, the hymns are 
sung, and the body of Charles is carried down to the vault and laid beside 
the tombs of his ancestors. As he had longed to be, he became the 
echo of a saga.   Heidenstam wrote four other works of fiction 
about earlier figures revered in Swedish memory. Excellent in their 
way, they lack the wide appeal of <The Charles Men>, and need 
not detain us here. It is different with his volume <The Swedes 
and Their Chieftains (Svenskarna och deras ho^vdingar),> a history 
intended for the general reader and particularly suited for high 
school students. Admirably written, it is a perfect introduction to Swedish 
history for readers of other countries. Some of the earlier episodes 
have touches of the supernatural, as suited to the legendary background. 
These are suggestive of Selma Lagerlo^f. Especially touching 
is the chapter, "The Little Sister", about a king's daughter 
who became a nun in the convent of St& Birgitta. The record 
teems with romance and adventure. Gustaf Vasa is a superb example, 
and Charles /10,, the conqueror of Denmark, hardly less so. Of 
Gustavus Adolphus and Charles /12, it is unnecessary to speak. 
Today the private detective will also investigate insurance claims or 
handle divorce cases, but his primary function remains what it has always 
been, to assist those who have money in their unending struggle with 
those who have not. It is from this unpromising background that the 
fictional private detective was recruited. ##

THE mythological 
private eye differs from his counterpart in real life in two essential 
ways. On the one hand, he does not work for a large agency, but 
is almost always self-employed. As a free-lance investigator, the fictional 
detective is responsible to no one but himself and his client. 
For this reason, he appears as an independent and self-reliant figure, 
whose rugged individualism need not be pressed into the mold of a 
9 to 5 routine. On the other hand, the fictional detective does not 
break strikes or handle divorce cases; no client would ever think of 
asking him to do such things. Whatever his original assignment, the 
fictional private eye ends up by investigating and solving a crime, usually 
a murder. Operating as a one man police force in fact if not in 
name, he is at once more independent and more dedicated than the police 
themselves. He catches criminals not merely because he is paid to 
do so (frequently he does not receive a fee at all), but because he enjoys 
his work, because he firmly believes that murder must be punished. 
Thus the fictional detective is much more than a simple businessman. 
He is, first and foremost, a defender of public morals, a servant of 
society.   It is this curious blend of rugged individualism and 
public service which accounts for the great appeal of the mythological 
detective. By virtue of his self-reliance, his individualism and 
his freedom from external restraint, the private eye is a perfect embodiment 
of the middle class conception of liberty, which amounts to doing 
what you please and let the devil take the hindmost. At the same time, 
because the personal code of the detective coincides with the legal 
dictates of his society, because he likes to catch criminals, he is 
in middle class eyes a virtuous man. In this way, the private detective 
gets the best of two possible worlds. He is an individualist but 
not an anarchist; he is a public servant but not a cop. In short, the 
fictional private eye is a specialized version of Adam Smith's 
ideal entrepreneur, the man whose private ambitions must always and everywhere 
promote the public welfare. In the mystery story, as in <The 
Wealth of Nations,> individualism and the social good are two sides 
of the same benevolent coin. ##

THERE is only one 
catch to this idyllic arrangement: Adam Smith was wrong. Not only 
did the ideal entrepreneur not produce the greatest good for the greatest 
number, he ended by destroying himself, by giving birth to monopoly 
capitalism. The rise of the giant corporations in Western Europe 
and the United States dates from the period 1880-1900. Now, although 
the roots of the mystery story in serious literature go back as far 
as Balzac, Dickens, and Poe, it was not until the closing decades 
of the 19th century that the private detective became an established 
figure in popular fiction. Sherlock Holmes, the ancestor of all private 
eyes, was born during the 1890s. Thus the transformation of Adam 
Smith's ideal entrepreneur into a mythological detective coincides 
closely with the decline of the real entrepreneur in economic life. Driven 
from the marketplace by the course of history, our hero disguises 
himself as a private detective. The birth of the myth compensates 
for the death of the ideal.   Even on the fictional level, however, 
the contradictions which give rise to the mystery story are not fully 
resolved. The individualism and public service of the private detective 
both stem from his dedication to a personal code of conduct: 
he enforces the law without being told to do so. The private eye is therefore 
a moral man; but his morality rests upon that of his society. 
The basic premise of all mystery stories is that the distinction between 
good and bad coincides with the distinction between legal and illegal. 
Unfortunately, this assumption does not always hold good. As 
capitalism in the 20th century has become increasingly dependent upon 
force and violence for its survival, the private detective is placed 
in a serious dilemma. If he is good, he may not be legal; if he is 
legal, he may not be good. It is the gradual unfolding and deepening 
of this contradiction which creates the inner dialectic of the evolution 
of the mystery story. ##

WITH the advent of Sir Arthur 
Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes, the development of the modern private 
detective begins. Sherlock Holmes is not merely an individualist; 
he is very close to being a mental case. A brief list of the great 
detective's little idiosyncrasies would provide Dr& Freud with 
ample food for thought. Holmes is addicted to the use of cocaine and 
other refreshing stimulants; he is prone to semi-catatonic trances 
induced by the playing of the vioiln; he is a recluse, an incredible 
egotist, a confirmed misogynist. Holmes rebels against the social 
conventions of his day not on moral but rather on aesthetic grounds. His 
eccentricity begins as a defense against boredom. It was in order 
to avoid the stuffy routine of middle class life that Holmes became 
a detective in the first place. As he informs Watson, "My life is 
spent in one long effort to escape from the commonplaces of existence. 
These little problems help me to do so". Holmes is a public servant, 
to be sure; but the society which he serves bores him to tears.

The curious relationship between Holmes and Scotland Yard 
provides an important clue to the deeper significance of his eccentric 
behavior. Although he is perfectly willing to cooperate with Scotland 
Yard, Holmes has nothing but contempt for the intelligence and mentality 
of the police. They for their part are convinced that Holmes 
is too "unorthodox" and "theoretical" to make a good detective. 
Why do the police find Holmes "unorthodox"? On the face of 
it, it is because he employs deductive techniques alien to official 
police routine. Another, more interesting explanation, is hinted at by 
Watson when he observes on several occasions that Holmes would have 
made a magnificent criminal. The great detective modestly agrees. Watson's 
insight is verified by the mysterious link between Holmes 
and his arch-opponent, Dr& Moriarty. The two men resemble each other 
closely in their cunning, their egotism, their relentlessness. The 
first series of Sherlock Holmes adventures ends with Holmes and Moriarty 
grappling together on the edge of a cliff. They are presumed 
to have plunged to a common grave in this fatal embrace. Linked to Holmes 
even in death, Moriarty represents the alter-ego of the great 
detective, the image of what our hero might have become were he not a 
public servant. Just as Holmes the eccentric stands behind Holmes the 
detective, so Holmes the potential criminal lurks behind both. ## 

IN the modern English "whodunnit", this insinuation of 
latent criminality in the detective himself has almost entirely disappeared. 
Hercule Poirot and Lord Peter Whimsey (the respective creations 
of Agatha Christie and Dorothy Sayers) have retained 
Holmes' 
egotism but not his zest for life and eccentric habits. Poirot and 
his counterparts are perfectly respectable people; it is true that 
they are also extremely dull. Their dedication to the status quo has 
been affirmed at the expense of the fascinating but dangerous individualism 
of a Sherlock Holmes. The latter's real descendents were unable 
to take root in England; they fled from the Victorian parlor 
and made their way across the stormy Atlantic. In the American "hardboiled" 
detective story of the '20s and '30s, the spirit of the 
mad genius from Baker Street lives on.   Like Holmes, the 
American private eye rejects the social conventions of his time. But 
unlike Holmes, he feels his society to be not merely dull but also corrupt. 
Surrounded by crime and violence everywhere, the "hardboiled" 
private eye can retain his purity only through a life of self-imposed 
isolation. His alienation is far more acute than Holmes'; he 
is not an eccentric but rather an outcast. With Rex Stout's Nero 
Wolfe, alienation is represented on a purely physical plane. Wolfe 
refuses to ever leave his own house, and spends most of his time drinking 
beer and playing with orchids. More profound and more disturbing, 
however, is the moral isolation of Raymond Chandler's Philip Marlowe. 
In a society where everything is for sale, Marlowe is the only 
man who cannot be bought. His tough honesty condemns him to a solitary 
and difficult existence. Beaten, bruised and exhausted, he pursues 
the elusive killer through the demi-monde of high society and low 
morals, always alone, always despised. In the end, he gets his man, but 
no one seems to care; virtue is its own and only reward. A similar 
tone of underlying futility and despair pervades the spy thrillers 
of Eric Ambler and dominates the most famous of all American mystery 
stories, Dashiell Hammett's <The Maltese Falcon>. Sam Spade 
joins forces with a band of adventurers in search of a priceless jeweled 
statue of a falcon; but when the bird is found at last, it turns 
out to be a fake. Now the detective must save his own skin by informing 
on the girl he loves, who is also the real murderer. For Sam Spade, 
neither crime nor virtue pays; moreover, it is increasingly difficult 
to distinguish between the two.   Because the private eye 
intends to save society in spite of himself, he invariably finds himself 
in trouble with the police. The latter are either too stupid to 
catch the killer or too corrupt to care. In either case, they do not 
appreciate the private detective's zeal. Perry Mason and Hamilton 
Burger, Nero Wolfe and Inspector Cramer spend more time fighting 
each other than they do in looking for the criminal. Frequently enough, 
the police are themselves in league with the killer; Dashiell 
Hammett's 
<Red Harvest> provides a classic example of this theme. 
But even when the police are honest, they do not trust the private 
eye. He is, like Phillip Marlowe, too alienated to be reliable. Finally, 
in <The Maltese Falcon> among others, the clash between detective 
and police is carried to its logical conclusion: Sam Spade 
becomes the chief murder suspect. In order to exonerate himself, he 
is compelled to find the real criminal, who happens to be his girl friend. 
What was only a vague suspicion in the case of Sherlock Holmes 
now appears as a direct accusation: the private eye is in danger of 
turning into his opposite. ##

IT IS the growing contradiction 
between individualism and public service in the mystery story which 
creates this fatal dilemma. By upholding his own personal code of behavior, 
the private detective has placed himself in opposition to a society 
whose fabric is permeated with crime and corruption. That society 
responds by condemning the private eye as a threat to the status quo, 
a potential criminal. If the detective insists upon retaining his 
personal standards, he must now do so in conscious defiance of his society. 
He must, in short, cease to be a detective and become a rebel. 
On the other hand, if he wishes to continue in his chosen profession, 
he must abandon his own code and sacrifice his precious individualism. 
Dashiell Hammett resolved this contradiction by ceasing to write 
mystery 
stories and turning to other pursuits. His successors have adopted 
the opposite alternative. In order to save the mystery story, they 
have converted the private detective into an organization man.

The first of two possible variations on this theme is symbolized by 
Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer. At first glance, this hero seems 
to be more rather than less of an individualist than any of his predecessors. 
For Hammer, nothing is forbidden. He kills when he pleases, 
takes his women where he finds them and always acts as judge, jury 
and executioner rolled into one. 
It will be shown that the <objectives> of the cooperative people in 
an organization determine the type of <network> required, because the 
type of network functions according to the characteristics of the messages 
enumerated in Table 1. Great stress is placed on the role that 
the monitoring of information sending plays in maintaining the effectiveness 
of the network. By monitoring, we mean some system of control 
over the types of information sent from the various centers. 
As a word of caution, we should be aware that in actual practice no 
message is purely one of the four types, question, command, statement, 
or exclamation. For example, suppose a man wearing a $200 watch, driving 
a 1959 Rolls Royce, stops to ask a man on the sidewalk, "What 
time is it"? This sentence would have most of the characteristics 
of a question, but it has some of the characteristics of a statement 
because the questioner has conveyed the fact that he has no faith in 
his own timepiece or the one attached to his car. If the man on the 
sidewalk is surprised at this question, it has served as an exclamation. 
Also, since the man questioned feels a strong compulsion to answer 
(and thereby avoid the consequences of being thought queer) the question 
has assumed some measurable properties of a command. However, for 
convenience we will stick to the idea that information can be classified 
according to Table 1. On this basis, certain extreme kinds of networks 
will be discussed for illustrative purposes. 

#NETWORKS ILLUSTRATING 
SOME SPECIAL TYPES OF ORGANIZATION#

_THE COCKTAIL PARTY._ 
Presumably a cocktail party is expected to fulfill the host's desire 
to get together a number of people who are inadequately acquainted 
and thereby arrange for bringing the level of acquaintance up to adequacy 
for future cooperative endeavors. The party is usually in a room 
small enough so that all guests are within sight and hearing of one another. 
The information is furnished by each of the guests, is sent by 
oral broadcasting over the air waves, and is received by the ears. Since 
the air is a continuum, the network of communication remains intact 
regardless of the positions or motions of the points (the people) 
in the net. As shown in Figure 1, there is a connection for communication 
between every pair of points. This, and other qualifications, make 
the cocktail party the most complete and most chaotic communication 
system ever dreamed up. All four types of message listed in Table 
1 are permitted, although decorum and cocktail tradition require holding 
the commands to a minimum, while <exclamations> having complimentary 
intonations are more than customarily encouraged. The completeness 
of the connections provide that, for ~<N> people, there are **f 
lines of communication between the pairs, which can become a large number 
(1,225) for a party of fifty guests. Looking at the diagram, we 
see that **f connection lines come in to each member. Thus the cocktail 
party would appear to be the ideal system, but there is one weakness. 
In spite of the dreams of the host for oneness in the group, the 
**f incoming messages for each guest overload his receiving system beyond 
comprehension if ~<N> exceeds about six. The crowd consequently 
breaks up into temporary groups ranging in size from two to six, with 
a half-life for the cluster ranging from three to twenty minutes.

For the occasion on which everyone already knows everyone else 
and the host wishes them to meet one or a few honored newcomers, then 
the "open house" system is advantageous because the honored guests 
are fixed connective points and the drifting guests make and break connections 
at the door. _THE RURAL COMMUNITY._ We consider a rural 
community as an assemblage of inhabited dwellings whose configuration 
is determined by the location and size of the arable land sites necessary 
for family subsistence. We assume for this illustration that the 
size of the land plots is so great that the distance between dwellings 
is greater than the voice can carry and that most of the communication 
is between nearest neighbors only, as shown in Figure 2. Information 
beyond nearest neighbor is carried second-, third-, and fourth-hand 
as a distortable rumor. In Figure 2, the points in the network are 
designated by a letter accompanied by a number. The numbers indicate 
the number of nearest neighbors. It will be noted that point ~<f> 
has seven nearest neighbors, ~<h> and ~<e> have six, and ~<p> 
has only one, while the remaining points have intermediate numbers. 
In any social system in which communications have an importance 
comparable with that of production and other human factors, a point 
like ~<f> in Figure 2 would (other things being equal) be the dwelling 
place for the community leader, while ~<e> and ~<h> would 
house the next most important citizens. A point like ~<p> gets 
information directly from ~<n>, but all information beyond ~<n> 
is indirectly relayed through ~<n>. The dweller at ~<p> is 
last to hear about a new cure, the slowest to announce to his neighbors 
his urgent distresses, the one who goes the farthest to trade, and the 
one with the greatest difficulty of all in putting over an idea or 
getting people to join him in a cooperative effort. Since the hazards 
of poor communication are so great, ~<p> can be justified as a habitable 
site only on the basis of unusual productivity such as is made 
available by a waterfall for milling purposes, a mine, or a sugar maple 
camp. Location theorists have given these matters much consideration. 
_MILITARY ORGANIZATIONS._ The networks for military communications 
are one of the best examples of networks which not only must be 
changed with the changes in objectives but also must be changed with the 
addition of new machines of war. They also furnish proof that, in 
modern war, message sending must be monitored. Without monitoring, a 
military hookup becomes a noisy party. The need for monitoring became 
greater when radio was adopted for military signaling. Alexander the 
Great, who used runners as message carriers, did not have to worry about 
having every officer in his command hear what he said and having 
hundreds of them comment at once. As time has passed and science has 
progressed, the speed of military vehicles has increased, the range of 
missiles has been extended, the use of target-hunting noses on the projectiles 
has been adopted, and the range and breadth of message sending 
has increased. Next to the old problem of the slowness of decision 
making, network structure seems to be paramount, and without monitoring 
no network has value.   On the parade ground the net may be similar 
to that shown in Figure 3. The monitoring is the highest and 
most restrictive of any organization in existence. No questions, statements, 
or explanations are permitted- only commands. Commands go only 
from an officer to the man of nearest lower rank. The same command 
is repeated as many times as there are levels in rank from general to 
corporal. All orders originate with the officer of highest rank and 
terminate with action of the men in the ranks. Even the officer in charge, 
be it a captain (for small display) or a general, is restrained 
by monitoring. This is done for simplicity of commands and to bring the 
hidden redundancy up to where misunderstanding has almost zero possibility. 
The commands are specified by the military regulations; are 
few in number, briefly worded, all different in sound; and are combinable 
into sequences which permit any marching maneuver that could be 
desired on a parade ground. This monitoring is necessary because, on 
a parade ground, everyone can hear <too much>, and without monitoring 
a confused social event would develop.   With troops dispersed 
on fields of battle rather than on the parade ground, it may seem that 
a certain amount of monitoring is automatically enforced by the lines 
of communication. Years ago this was true, but with the replacement 
of wires or runners by radio and radar (and perhaps television), these 
restrictions have disappeared and now again <too much> is heard.

In contrast to cocktail parties, military organizations, even 
in the field, are more formal. In the extreme and oversimplified example 
suggested in Figure 3, the organization is more easily understood 
and more predictable in behavior. A military organization has an objective 
chosen by the higher command. This objective is adhered to throughout 
the duration of the action. The connective system, or network, 
is tailored to meet the requirements of the objective, and it is therefore 
not surprising that a military body acting as a single coordinated 
unit has a different communication network than a factory, a college, 
or a rural village.   The assumptions upon which the example 
shown 
in Figure 3 is based are: (a) One man can direct about six subordinates 
if the subordinates are chosen carefully so that they do not 
need too much personal coaching, indoctrinating, etc&. (b) A message 
runs too great a risk of being distorted if it is to be relayed more 
than about six consecutive times. (c) Decisions of a general kind 
are made by the central command. And (d) all action of a physical kind 
pertinent to the mission is relegated to the line of men on the lower 
rank. These assumptions lead to an organization with one man at the 
top, six directly under him, six under each of these, and so on until 
there are six levels of personnel. The number of people acting as one 
body by this scheme gives a surprisingly large army of **f 55,987 
men.   This organizational network would be of no avail if there 
were no regulations pertaining to the types of message sent. Of types 
of message listed in Table 1, commands and statements are the only 
ones sent through the vertical network shown in Figure 3. A further 
regulation is that commands always go <down>, unaccompanied by statements, 
and statements always go <up>, unaccompanied by commands. Questions 
and, particularly, exclamations are usually channeled along informal, 
horizontal lines not indicated in Figure 3 and seldom are carried 
beyond the nearest neighbor.   It will readily be seen that 
in this suggested network (not materially different from some of the 
networks in vogue today) greater emphasis on monitoring is implied than 
is usually put into practice. Furthermore, the network in Figure 
3 is only the basic net through which other networks pertaining to logistics 
and the like are interlaced.   Not discussed here are some 
military problems of modern times such as undersea warfare, where the 
surveillance, sending, transmitting, and receiving are all so inadequate 
that networks and decision making are not the bottlenecks. Such 
problems are of extreme interest as well as importance and are so much 
like fighting in a rain forest or guerrilla warfare at night in tall 
grass that we might have to re-examine primitive conflicts for what they 
could teach. _A TEAM FOR USEFUL RESEARCH._ This is an unsolved 
problem which probably has never been seriously investigated, although 
one frequently hears the comment that we have insufficient <specialists> 
of the kind who can compete with the Germans or Swiss, for example, 
in precision machinery and mathematics, or the Finns in geochemistry. 
We hear equally fervent concern over the belief that we have 
not enough <generalists> who can see the over-all picture and combine 
our national skills and knowledge for useful purposes. This problem 
of the optimum balance in the relative numbers of generalists and 
specialists can be investigated on a communicative network basis. Since 
the difficulty of drawing the net is great, we will merely discuss 
it.   First, we realize that a pure specialist does not exist. But, 
for practical purposes, we have people who can be considered as such. 
For example, there are persons who are in physical science, in the 
field of mineralogy, trained in crystallography, who use only X-rays, 
applying only the powder technique of X-ray diffraction, to clay 
minerals only, and who have spent the last fifteen years concentrating 
on the montmorillonites; or persons in the social sciences in the 
field of anthropology, studying the lung capacity of seven Andean 
Indians. So we see that a specialist is a man who knows more and more 
about less and less as he develops, as contrasted to the generalist, 
who knows less and less about more and more. 
AMERICAN DEMOCRATIC THOUGHT, pointed up the relation between the 
Protestant movement in this country and the development of a social 
religion, which he called the American Democratic Faith. Those familiar 
with his work will remember that he placed the incipience of the 
democratic faith at around 1850. And he describes it as a balanced polarity 
between the notions of the free individual and what he called 
the fundamental law.   I want to say more about Gabriel's so-called 
fundamental law. But first I want to quote him on the relationship 
that he found between religion and politics in this country and 
what happened to it. He points out that from the time of Jackson on 
through World War /1,, evangelical Protestantism was a dominant influence 
in the social and political life of America. He terms this 
early enthusiasm "Romantic Christianity" and concludes that its 
similarity to democratic beliefs of that day is so great that "the doctrine 
of liberty seems but a secular version of its counterpart in evangelical 
Protestantism". Let me quote him even more fully, for his 
analysis is important to my theme.   He says: "Beside the 
Protestant philosophy of Progress, as expressed in radical or conservative 
millenarianism, should be placed the doctrine of the democratic 
faith which affirmed it to be the duty of the destiny of the United 
States to assist in the creation of a better world by keeping lighted 
the beacon of democracy". He specifies, "In the middle period 
of the Nineteenth Century it was colored by Christian supernaturalism, 
in the Twentieth Century it was affected by naturalism. But in 
every period it has been humanism". And let me add, utopianism, also.

Some fourteen or fifteen years ago, in an essay I called 
<The Leader Follows- Where?> I used his polarity to illustrate 
what I thought had happened to us in that form of liberalism we call 
Progressivism. It seemed to me that the liberals had scrapped the 
balanced polarity and reposed both liberty and the fundamental law 
in the common man. That is to say Gabriel's fundamental law had been 
so much modified by this time that it was neither fundamental nor 
law any more. It is a weakness of Gabriel's analysis that he never 
seems to realize that his so-called fundamental law had already been 
cut loose from its foundations when it was adapted to democracy. And 
with Progressivism the Religion of Humanity was replacing what Gabriel 
called Christian supernaturalism. And the common man was developing 
mythic power, or charisma, on his own.   During the decade 
that followed, the common man, as that piece put it, grew uncomfortable 
as the Voice of God and fled from behind Saint Woodrow (Wilson) 
only to learn from Science, to his shocked relief that after all there 
was no God he had to speak for and that he was just an animal anyhow- 
that there was a chemical formula for him, and that too much couldn't 
be expected of him.   The socialism implicit in the slogan 
of the Roosevelt Revolution, freedom from want and fear, seems a 
far cry from the individualism of the First Amendment to the Constitution, 
or of the Jacksonian frontier. What had happened to the common 
man?   French Egalitarianism had had only nominal influence 
in this country before the days of Popularism. The riotous onrush 
of industrialism after the War for Southern Independence and the general 
secular drift to the Religion of Humanity, however, prepared 
the way for a reception of the French Revolution's socialistic offspring 
of one sort of another. The first of which to find important place 
in our federal government was the graduated income tax under Wilson. 
Moreover the centralization of our economy during the 1920s, the 
dislocations of the Depression, the common ethos of Materialism everywhere, 
all contributed in various ways to the face-lifting that replaced 
Mike Fink and the Great Gatsby with the anonymous physiognomy 
of the Little People.   However, it is important to trace the 
philosophy of the French Revolution to its sources to understand the 
common democratic origin of individualism and socialism and the influence 
of the latter on the former. That John Locke's philosophy of 
the social contract fathered the American Revolution with its Declaration 
of Independence, I believe, we generally accept. Yet, after 
Rousseau had given the <social contract> a new twist with his notion 
of the General Will, the same philosophy, it may be said, became 
the idea source of the French Revolution also.   The importance 
of Rousseau's twist has not always been clear to us, however. This 
notion of the General Will gave rise to the Commune of Paris in 
the Revolution and later brought Napoleon to dictatorship. And it 
is clearly argued by Lord Percy of Newcastle, in his remarkable long 
essay, <The Heresy of Democracy>, and in a more general way by 
Voegelin, in his <New Science of Politics>, that this same Rousseauan 
idea, descending through European democracy, is the source of 
Marx's theory of the dictatorship of the proletariat. This is important 
to understanding the position that doctrinaire liberals found themselves 
in after World War /2, and our great democratic victory 
that brought no peace.   The long road that had taken liberals in 
this country into the social religion of democracy, into a worship of 
man, led logically to the Marxist dream of a classless society under 
a Socialist State. And the ~USSR existed as the revolutionary 
experiment in radical socialism, the ultimate exemplar. And by the 
time the war ended, liberal leadership in this country was spiritually 
Marxist.   We will recall that the still confident liberals of 
the Truman administration gathered with other Western utopians in 
San Francisco to set up the legal framework, finally and at last, to 
rationalize war- to rationalize want and fear- out of the world: 
the United Nations. We of the liberal-led world got all set for peace 
and rehabilitation. Then suddenly we found ourselves in the middle 
of another fight, an irrational, an indecent, an undeclared and immoral 
war with our strongest (and some had thought noblest) ally.

During the next five years the leaders of the Fair Deal reluctantly 
backed down from the optimistic expectations of the New Deal. During 
the next five years liberal leaders in the United States sank in 
the cumulative confusion attendant upon and manifested in a negative 
policy of Containment- and the bitterest irony- enforced and enforceable 
only by threat of a weapon that we felt the greatest distaste 
for but could not abandon: the atom bomb. In 1952, it will be remembered, 
the G&O&P& without positive program campaigned on the 
popular disillusionment with liberal leadership and won overwhelmingly.

All of this, I know, is recent history familiar to you. But 
I have been at some pains to review it as the drama of the common 
man, to point up what happened to him under Eisenhower's leadership.

A perceptive journalist, Sam Lubell, has phrased it in the 
title of one of his books as THE REVOLT OF THE MODERATES. He opens 
his discourse, however, with a review of the Eisenhower inaugural 
festivities at which a sympathetic press had assembled its massive talents, 
all primed to catch some revelation of the emerging new age. The 
show was colorful, indeed, exuberant, but the press for all its assiduity 
could detect no note of a fateful rendezvous with destiny.

Lubell offers his book as an explanation of why there was no clue. 
And I select this sentence as its pertinent summation: "In essence 
the drama of his (Eisenhower's) Presidency can be described 
as the ordeal of a nation turned conservative and struggling- thus far 
with but limited and precarious success- to give effective voice 
and force to that conservatism".   I will assume that we are 
all aware of the continuing struggle, with its limited and precarious 
success, toward conservatism. It has moved on various levels, it has 
been clamorous and confused. Obviously there has been no agreement on 
what American conservatism is, or rather, what it should be. For it 
was neglected, not to say nascent, when the struggle began. I saw a 
piece the other day assailing William Buckley, author of MAN AND 
GOD AT YALE and publisher of the <National Review>, as no conservative 
at all, but an old liberal. I would agree with this view. But 
I'm not here to define conservatism.   What I am here to do 
is to report on the gyrations of the struggle- a struggle that amounts 
to self-redefinition- to see if we can predict its future course.

One of the obvious conclusions we can make on the basis of 
the last election, I suppose, is that we, the majority, were dissatisfied 
with Eisenhower conservatism. Though, to be sure, we gave Kennedy 
no very positive approval in the margin of his preferment. 
This is, however, symptomatic of our national malaise. But before I 
try to diagnose it, I would offer other evidence. I will mention two 
volumes of specific comment on this malaise that appeared last year. 
The earlier of them was an unofficial enterprise, sponsored by <Life> 
magazine, under the title of <the National purpose>. The contributors 
to this testament were all well-known: a former Democratic 
candidate for President, a New Deal poet, the magazine's chief 
editorial writer, two newspaper columnists, head of a national broadcasting 
company, a popular Protestant evangelist, etc&. What I want 
to point out here is that all of them are ex-liberals, or modified liberals, 
with perhaps one exception. I suppose we might classify Billy 
Graham as an old liberal. And I would further note that they all- 
with one exception again- sang in one key or another the same song. 
Its refrain was: "Let us return to the individualistic democracy 
of our forefathers for our salvation".   Adlai Stevenson 
expressed some reservations about this return. Others invoked technology 
and common sense. Only Walter Lippman envisioned the possibility 
of our having "outlived most of what we used to regard as the program 
of our national purposes".   But the most notable thing about 
the incantation of these ex-liberals was that the one-time shibboleth 
of <socialism> was conspicuously absent.   The second specific 
comment was the report of Eisenhower's Commission on National 
Goals, titled GOALS FOR AMERICANS. They, perhaps, gave the pitch 
of their position in the preface where it was said that Eisenhower 
requested that the Commission be administered by the American Assembly 
of Columbia University, because it was <non-partisan>. The 
Commission seems to represent the viewpoint of what I would call the 
<unconscious> liberal, but not unconscious enough, to invoke the now 
taboo symbolism of socialism. And here again we hear the same refrain 
mentioned above: "The paramount goal of the United States 
**h set long ago **h was to guard the rights of the individual **h ensure 
his development **h enlarge his opportunity". This group is secularist 
and their program tends to be technological.   But it is 
the need to undertake these testaments that I would submit here as 
symptom of the common man's malaise. And let me add Murray's new 
book as another symptom of it, particularly so in view of the attention 
TIME magazine gave it when it came out recently. Father Murray 
goes back to the Declaration of Independence, too, though I may 
add, with considerably more historical perception.   I will reserve 
discussion of it for a moment, however, to return to President Kennedy. 
As symptomatic of the common man's malaise, he is most significant: 
a liberal and a Catholic, elected by the skin of his teeth. 
Does that not suggest to you an uncertain and uneasy, not to say confused, 
state of the public mind?   What is the common man's 
complaint? Let's take a panoramic look back over the course we 
have come. Has not that way been lit always by the lamp of liberalism 
up until the turning back under Eisenhower? And the basic character 
of that liberalism has been spiritual rather than economic. Ralph 
Gabriel gave it the name of Protestant philosophy of Progress. But 
there's a subjective side to that utopian outlook.

DOES our society have a runaway, uncontrollable growth of 
technology which may end our civilization, or a normal, healthy growth? 
Here there may be an analogy with cancer: we can detect cancers 
by their rapidly accelerating growth, determinable only when related 
to the more normal rate of healthy growth. Should the accelerating 
growth of technology then warn us? Noting such evidence is the first 
step; and almost the only "cure" is <early> detection and removal. 
One way to determine whether we have so dangerous a technology 
would be to check the strength of our society's organs to see if their 
functioning is as healthy as before. So an objective look at our 
present procedures may move us to consider seriously this possibly analogous 
situation. In any event, whether society may have cancer, or merely 
a virus infection, the "disease", we shall find, is political, 
economical, social, and even medical. Have not our physical abilities 
already deteriorated because of the more sedentary lives we are now 
living? Hence the prime issue, as I see it, is whether a democratic 
or free society can master technology for the benefit of mankind, 
or whether technology will rule and develop its own society compatible 
with <its> own needs as a force of nature.   We are already committed 
to establishing man's supremacy over nature and everywhere 
on earth, not merely in the limited social-political-economical context 
we are fond of today. Otherwise, we go on endlessly trying to draw 
the line, color and other, as to which kind of man we wish to see dominate. 
We have proved so able to solve technological problems that to 
contend we cannot realize a universal goal in the immediate future is 
to be extremely shortsighted, if nothing else. We must believe we have 
the ability to affect our own destinies: otherwise why try anything? 
So in these pages the term "technology" is used to include any 
and all means which could amplify, project, or augment man's control 
over himself and over other men. Naturally this includes all communication 
forms, e&g& languages, or any social, political, economic 
or religious structures employed for such control. Properly mindful 
of <all> the cultures in existence today throughout the world, we must 
employ these resources without war or violent revolution.   If 
we were creating a wholly new society, we could insist that our social, 
political, economic and philosophic institutions foster rather than 
hamper man; best growth. But we cannot start off with a clean slate. 
So we must first analyze our present institutions with respect to 
the effect of each on man's major needs. Asked which institution 
most needs correction, I would say the corporation as it exists in America 
today. At first glance this appears strange: of all people, 
was not America founded by rugged individualists who established a new 
way of life still inspiring "undeveloped" societies abroad? But 
hear Harrison E& Salisbury, former Moscow correspondent of The 
New York Times, and author of "To Moscow- And Beyond". 
In a book review of "The Soviet Cultural Offensive", he says, 
"Long before the State Department organized its bureaucracy into 
an East-West Contacts Staff in order to wage a cultural counter-offensive 
within Soviet borders, the sharp cutting-edge of American 
culture had carved its mark across the Russian steppes, as when the enterprising 
promoters of 'Porgy and Bess' overrode the State Department 
to carry the contemporary 'cultural warfare' behind the 
enemy lines. They were not diplomats or jazz musicians, or even organizers 
of reading-rooms and photo-montage displays, but rugged capitalist 
entrepreneurs like Henry Ford, Hugh Cooper, Thomas Campbell, 
the International Harvester Co&, and David W& Griffith. Their 
kind created an American culture superior to any in the world, an 
industrial and technological culture which penetrated Russia as it did 
almost every corner of the earth without a nickel from the Federal 
treasury or a single governmental specialist to contrive directives or 
program a series of consultations of interested agencies. This favorable 
image of America in the minds of Russian men and women is still 
there despite years of energetic anti-American propaganda **h" 

#CORPORATIONS NOW OUTMODED#

Perhaps the public's present attitude 
toward business stems from the fact that the "rugged capitalist entrepreneur" 
no more exists in America. In his stead is a milquetoast 
version known as "the corporation". But even if we cannot see 
the repulsive characteristics in this new image of America, foreigners 
can; and our loss of "prestige" abroad is the direct result. 
No amount of ballyhoo will cover up the sordid facts. If we want respect 
from ourselves or others, we will have to earn it. First, let us 
realize that whatever good this set-up achieved in earlier times, now 
the corporation <per se> cannot take economic leadership. Businesses 
must develop as a result of the ideas, energies and ambitions of an 
individual having purpose and comprehensive ability within <one> mind. 
When we "forced" individuals to assume the corporate structure 
by means of taxes and other legal statutes, we adopted what I would 
term "pseudo-capitalism" and so took a major step toward socialism. 
The biggest loss, of course, was the individual's lessened desire 
and ability to give his services to the growth of his company and 
our economy. Socialism, I grant, has a definite place in our society. 
But let us not complain of the evils of capitalism by referring to 
a form that is not truly capitalistic. Some forms of capitalism do indeed 
work- superb organizations, a credit to any society. But the pseudo-capitalism 
which dictates our whole economy as well as our politics 
and social life, will not stand close scrutiny. Its pretense to operate 
in the public interest is little more than a sham. It serves 
only its own stockholders and poorly at that. As a creative enterprise, 
its abilities are primarily in "swallowing" creative enterprises 
developed outside its own organization (an ability made possible by 
us, and almost mandatory). As to benefits to employees, it is notorious 
for its callous disregard except where it depends on them for services.

The corporation in America is in reality our form of socialism, 
vying in a sense with the other socialistic form that has emerged 
within governmental bureaucracy. But while the corporation has all 
the disadvantages of the socialist form of organization (so cumbersome 
it cannot constructively do much of anything not compatible with its 
need to perpetuate itself and maintain its status quo), unluckily it 
does not have the desirable aspect of socialism, the motivation to operate 
for the benefit of society as a whole. So we are faced with a 
vast network of amorphous entities perpetuating themselves in whatever 
manner they can, without regard to the needs of society, controlling 
society and forcing upon it a regime representing only the corporation's 
needs for survival.   The corporation has a limited, specific 
place in our society. Ideally speaking, it should be allowed to operate 
only where the public has a great stake in the continuity of supply 
or services, and where the actions of a single proprietor are secondary 
to the needs of society. Examples are in public utilities, making 
military aircraft and accessories, or where the investment and risk 
for a proprietorship would be too great for a much needed project impossible 
to achieve by any means other than the corporate form, e&g& 
constructing major airports or dams. Thus, if corporations are not 
to run away with us, they must become quasi-governmental institutions, 
subject to public control and needs. In all other areas, private initiative 
of the "proprietorship" type should be urged to produce the 
desired goods and services. 

#PROPRIETORSHIP#

Avoiding runaway 
technology can be done only by assuring a humane society; and for this 
human beings must be firmly in control of the economics on which our 
society rests. Such genuine human leadership the proprietorship can 
offer, corporations cannot. It can project long-range goals for itself. 
Corporations react violently to short-range stimuli, e& g&, 
quarterly and annual dividend reports. Proprietorships can establish 
a unity and integrity of control; corporations, being more amorphous, 
cannot. Proprietorships can establish a meaningful identity, representing 
a human personality, and thus establish sincere relationships with 
customers and community. Corporations are apt by nature to be impersonal, 
inhumane, shortsighted and almost exclusively profit-motivated, 
a picture they could scarcely afford to present to the public. The 
proprietor is able to create a leadership impossible in the corporate 
structure with its board of directors and stockholders. Leadership is 
lacking in our society because it has no legitimate place to develop. 
Men continuously at the head of growing enterprises can acquire experiences 
of the most varied, complicated and trying type so that at maturation 
they have developed the competence and willingness to accept 
the personal responsibility so sorely needed now.   Hence government 
must establish greater controls upon corporations so that their 
activities promote what is deemed essential to the national interest. 
Proprietorships should get the tax advantages now accruing to corporations, 
e& g& the chance to accumulate capital so vital for growth. 
Corporations should pay added taxes, to be used for educational purposes 
(not necessarily of the formal type). The right to leave legacies 
should be substantially reduced and ultimately eliminated. To perpetuate 
wealth control led by small groups of individuals who played no 
role in its creation prevents those with real initiative from coming to 
the fore, and is basically anti-democratic. When the proprietor dies, 
the establishment should become a corporation until it is either acquired 
by another proprietor or the government decides to drop it. Strikes 
should be declared illegal against corporations because disagreements 
would have to be settled by government representatives acting as 
controllers of the corporation whose responsibility to the state would 
now be defined against proprietorship because employees and proprietors 
must be completely interdependent, as they are each a part of the 
whole. Strikes threatening the security of the proprietorship, if internally 
motivated, prevent a healthy relationship. Certainly external 
forces 
should not be applied arbitrarily out of mere power available to 
do so. <If we cannot stop warfare in our own economic system, how can 
we expect to abolish it internationally?> 

#ONE KIND OF PROPRIETORSHIP# 

These proposals would go far toward creating the economic 
atmosphere favoring growth of the individual, who, in turn, would help 
us to cope with runaway technology. Individual <human> strength is 
needed to pit against an inhuman condition. The battle is not easy. 
We are tempted to blame others for our problems rather than look them 
straight in the face and realize they are of our own making and possible 
of solution only by ourselves with the help of desperately needed, 
enlightened, competent leaders. Persons developed in to-day's corporations 
cannot hope to serve here- a judgment based on experiences 
of my own in business and in activities outside. In my own company, in 
effect a partnership, although legally a corporation, I have been able 
to do many things for my employees which "normal" corporations 
of comparable size and nature would have been unable to do. Also, I 
am convinced that if my company were a sole proprietorship instead of 
a partnership, I would have been even abler to solve long-range problems 
for myself and my fellow-employees. Any abilities I may have were 
achieved in their present shape from experience in sharing in the 
growth and control of my business, coupled with raising my family. This 
combined experience, on a foundation of very average, I assure you, 
intelligence and background, has helped me do things many well-informed 
people would bet heavily against. Perhaps a list of some of the "practices" 
of my company will help here.   The company grew 
out of efforts by two completely inexperienced men in their late twenties, 
neither having a formal education applicable to, or experience in, 
manufacturing or selling our type of articles. From an initial investment 
of $1,200 in 1943, it has grown, with no additional capital investment, 
to a present value estimated by some as exceeding $10,000,000 
(<we> don't disclose financial figures to the public). Its growth 
continues steadily on a par with past growth; and no limitation is 
in evidence. Our pin-curl clips and self-locking nuts achieved dominance 
in just a few years time, despite substantial, well established competition.

DURING the last years of Woodrow Wilson's administration, 
a red scare developed in our country. Many Americans reacted irrationally 
to the challenge of Russia and turned to the repression of 
ideas by force. Postmaster General Burleson set about to protect the 
American people against radical propaganda that might be spread through 
the mails. Attorney General Palmer made a series of raids that 
sent more than 4,000 so-called radicals to the jails, in direct violation 
of their constitutional rights. Then, not many years later, the 
Un-American Activities Committee, under the leadership of Martin 
Dies, pilloried hundreds of decent, patriotic citizens. Anyone who 
tried to remedy some of the most glaring defects in our form of democracy 
was denounced as a traitorous red whose real purpose was the destruction 
of our government. This hysteria reached its height under the 
leadership of Senator Joseph McCarthy. Demagogues of this sort found 
communist bogeys lurking behind any new idea that would run counter 
to stereotyped notions. New ideas were dangerous and must be repressed, 
no matter how.   Those who would suppress dangerous thoughts, 
credit ideas with high potency. They give strict interpretation to 
William James' statement that "Every idea that enters the mind 
tends to express itself". They seem to believe that a person will 
act automatically as soon as he contacts something new. Hence, the only 
defensible procedure is to repress any and every notion, unless it 
gives evidence that it is perfectly safe.   Despite this danger, 
however, we are informed on every hand that ideas, not machines, are 
our finest tools; they are priceless even though they cannot be recorded 
on a ledger page; they are the most valuable of commodities- 
and the most salable, for their demand far exceeds supply. So all-important 
are ideas, we are told, that persons successful in business and 
happy in social life usually fall into two classes: those who invent 
new ideas of their own, and those who borrow, beg, or steal from others.

Seemingly, with an unrestricted flow of ideas, all will 
be well, and we are even assured that "an idea a day will keep the sheriff 
away". That, however, may also bring the police, if the thinking 
does not meet with social approval. Criminals, as well as model 
citizens, exercise their minds. Merely having a mental image of some 
sort is not the all-important consideration.   Of course, there 
must be clarity: a single distinct impression is more valuable than 
many fuzzy ones. But clarity is not enough. The writer took a class 
of college students to the state hospital for the mentally ill in St& 
Joseph, Missouri. An inmate, a former university professor, expounded 
to us, logically and clearly, that someone was pilfering his thoughts. 
He appealed to us to bring his case to the attention of the authorities 
that justice might be done. Despite the clarity of his presentation, 
his idea was not of Einsteinian calibre.   True, ideas 
are important, perhaps life's most precious treasures. But have we 
not gone overboard in stressing their significance? Have we not actually 
developed idea worship?   Ideas we must have, and we seek 
them everywhere. We scour literature for them; here we find stored 
the wisdom of great minds. But are all these works worthy of consideration? 
Can they stand rigid scrutiny?   Shakespeare's 
wit and wisdom, his profound insight into human nature, have stood the 
test of centuries. But was he infallible in all things? What of 
his treatment of the Jew in <The Merchant of Venice?> 
Shakespeare 
gives us a vivid picture of Shylock, but probably he never saw a 
Jew, unless in some of his travels. The Jews had been banished from 
England in 1290 and were not permitted to return before 1655, when 
Shakespeare had been dead for thirty-nine years. If any had escaped 
expulsion by hiding, they certainly would not frequent the market-place.

Shakespeare did not usually invent the incidents in his plays, 
but borrowed them from old stories, ballads, and plays, wove them 
together, and then breathed into them his spark of life. Rather than 
from a first-hand study of Jewish people, his delineation of Shylock 
stems from a collection of Italian stories, <Il Pecorone>, published 
in 1558, 
although written almost two centuries earlier. He could 
learn at second hand from books, but could not thus capture the real 
Jewish spirit. Harris J& Griston, in <Shaking The Dust From 
Shakespeare> (216), writes: "There is not a word spoken by Shylock 
which one would expect from a real Jew".   He took the 
story of the pound of flesh and had to fasten it on someone. The Jew 
was the safest victim. No Jew was on hand to boycott his financially 
struggling theater. It would have been unwise policy, for instance, 
to apply the pound-of-flesh characterization to the thrifty Scotchman. 
Just as now anyone may hurl insults at a citizen of Mars, or even 
of Tikopia, and no senatorial investigation will result. Who cares 
about them!   Shakespeare does not tell us that Shylock was an 
aberrant individual. He sets him forth as being typical of the group. 
He tells of his "Jewish heart"- not a Shylockian heart; 
but a Jewish heart. This would make anyone crafty and cruel, capable 
of fiendish revenge.   There is no justification for such misrepresentation. 
If living Jews were unavailable for study, the Bible 
was at hand. Reading the Old Testament would have shown the dramatist 
that the ideas attributed to Shylock were abhorrent to the Jews.

Are we better off for having Shakespeare's idea of Shylock? 
Studying <The Merchant of Venice> in high school and college 
has given many young people their notions about Jews. Does this help 
the non-Jew to understand this group?   Thomas de Torquemada, 
Inquisitor-General of the Spanish Inquisition, put many persons 
to death. His name became synonymous with cold-blooded cruelty. Would 
we gain by keeping alive his memory and besmirching today's Roman 
Catholics by saying he had a Catholic heart? Let his bones and 
his memory rest in the fifteenth century where they belong; he is 
out of place in our times. Shakespeare's Shylock, too, is of dubious 
value in the modern world.   Ideas, in and of themselves, are 
not necessarily the greatest good. A successful businessman recently 
prefaced his address to a luncheon group with the statement that all 
economists should be sent to the hospitals for the mentally deranged where 
they and their theories might rot together. Will his words come 
to be treasured and quoted through the years?   Frequently we 
are given assurance that automatically all ideas will be sifted and resifted 
and in the end only the good ones will survive. But is that not 
like going to a chemistry laboratory and blindly pouring out liquids 
and powders from an array of bottles and then, after stirring, expecting 
a new wonder drug inevitably to result?   What of the efficiency 
of this natural instrument of free discussion? Is there some 
magic in it that assures results?   When Peter B& Kyne 
(<Pride of Palomar>, 43) informed us in 1921 that we had an <instinctive> 
dislike for the Japanese, did the heated debates of the Californians 
settle the truth or falsity of the proposition?   <The 
Leopard's Spots> came from the pen of Thomas Dixon in 1902, 
and in this he announced an "unchangeable" law. If a child had 
a single drop of Negro blood, he would revert to the ancestral line which, 
except as slaves under a superior race, had not made one step of 
progress in 3,000 years. That doctrine has been accepted by many, but 
has it produced good results?   In the same vein, a certain 
short-story plot has been overworked. The son and heir of a prominent 
family marries a girl who has tell-tale shadows on the half-moons of 
her finger nails. In time she presents her aristocratic husband with 
a coal-black child. Is the world better for having this idea thrust upon 
it? Will argument and debate decide its truth or falsity?

For answers to such questions we must turn to the anthropologists, 
the biologists, the historians, the psychologists, and the sociologists. 
Long ago they consigned the notions of Kyne and Dixon to the scrap 
heap.   False ideas surfeit another sector of our life. For 
several generations much fiction has appeared dealing with the steprelationship. 
The stepmother, almost without exception, has been presented 
as a cruel ogress. Children, conditioned by this mistaken notion, 
have feared stepmothers, while adults, by their antagonistic attitudes, 
have made the role of the substitute parents a difficult one. Debate 
is not likely to resolve the tensions and make the lot of the stepchild 
a happier one. Research, on the other hand, has shown many stepmothers 
to be eminently successful, some far better than the real mothers.

Helen Deutsch informed us (<The Psychology of Women>, 
Vol& /2,, 434) that in all cultures "the term 'stepmother' 
automatically evokes deprecatory implications", a conclusion accepted 
by many. Will mere debate on that proposition, even though it be 
free and untrammeled, remove the dross and leave a residue of refined 
gold? That is questionable, to say the least. Research into several 
cultures has proven her position to be a mistaken one.   Most 
assuredly ideas are invaluable. But ideas, just for the sake of having 
them, are not enough. In the 1930's, cures for the depression literally 
flooded Washington. For a time the President received hundreds 
of them every day, most of them worthless.   Ideas need to be 
tested, and not merely by argument and debate. When some question arises 
in the medical field concerning cancer, for instance, we do not 
turn to free and open discussion as in a political campaign. We have 
recourse to the scientifically-trained specialist in the laboratory. The 
merits of the Salk anti-polio vaccine were not established on the 
forensic platform or in newspaper editorials, but in the laboratory 
and by tests in the field on thousands of children.   Our presidential 
campaigns provide much debate and argument. But is the result 
new barnsful of tested knowledge on the basis of which we can with confidence 
solve our domestic and international problems? Man, we are 
told, is endowed with reason and is capable of distinguishing good from 
bad. But what a super-Herculean task it is to winnow anything of value 
from the mud-beplastered arguments used so freely, particularly since 
such common use is made of cliches and stereotypes, in themselves 
declarations of intellectual bankruptcy.   We are reminded, however, 
that freedom of thought and discussion, the unfettered exchange 
of ideas, is basic under our form of government.   Assuredly in 
our political campaigns there is freedom to think, to examine any and 
all issues, and to speak without restraint. No holds are barred. But 
have the results been heartening? May we state with confidence that 
in such an exhibition a republic will find its greatest security?

We must not forget, to be sure, that free discussion and debate 
have produced beneficial results. In truth, we can say that this broke 
the power of Senator Joseph McCarthy, who was finally exposed 
in full light to the American people. If he had been "liquidated" 
in some way, he would have become a martyr, a rallying point for people 
who shared his ideas. Debate in the political arena can be productive 
of good. But it is a clumsy and wasteful process: it can produce 
negative results but not much that is positive. Debate rid us of 
McCarthy but did not give us much that is positive. It did something 
to clear the ground, but it erected no striking new structure; it 
did not even provide the architect's plan for anything new. 
In the field of the natural sciences, scientifically verified data are 
quite readily available and any discussion can be shortened with good 
results. In the field of the social sciences a considerable fund of 
tested knowledge has been accumulated that can be used to good advantage.

By no means would we discourage the production of ideas: 
they provide raw materials with which to work; they provide stimulations 
that lead to further production. We would establish no censorship. 
The President's personality would have opened that office to him. 
And for the first time a representative of the highest office in the 
land would have been liable to the charge that he had attempted to make 
it a successorship by inheritance. It is testimony to the deep respect 
in which Mr& Eisenhower was held by members of all parties that 
the moral considerations raised by his approach to the matter were 
not explicitly to be broached.   These began to be apparent in a 
press conference held during the second illness in order that the consulting 
specialists might clarify the President's condition for the 
nation. And if Howard Rutstein felt impelled thereafter to formulate 
the ethics of the medical profession, his article in the <Atlantic 
Monthly> accomplished a good deal more. It forced us to fix the responsibility 
for the position in which all medical commentators had been 
placed. The discussion of professional ethics inevitably reminded 
us that in the historical perspective the President's decision will 
finally clarify itself as a moral, rather than a medical, problem. Because 
the responsibility for resolving the issue lay with the President, 
rather than with his doctors, nothing raises more surely for us 
the difficulties simple goodness faces in dealing with complex moral problems 
under political pressure. For the President had dealt with the 
matter humbly, in what he conceived as the democratic way. But the 
problem is one which gives us the measure of a man, rather than a group 
of men, whether a group of doctors, a group of party members assembled 
at a dinner to give their opinion, or the masses of the voters.

Any attempt to reconcile this statement of the central issue in 
the campaign of 1956 with the nature of the man who could not conceive 
it as the central issue will at least resolve our confusions about the 
chaotic and misleading results of the earnestness of both doctors and 
President in a situation which should never have arisen. It was a 
response to the conflict between political pressure and the moral intuition 
which resulted in attempts at prediction. In no other situation 
would a group of doctors, struggling competently to improve the life 
expectancy of a man beloved by the world, be subjected to such merciless 
and persistent questioning, and before they were prepared to demonstrate 
the kind of verbal precision which alone can clarify for mankind 
the problems it faces. And though we can look back now and see their 
errors, we can look back also to the ultimate error.   It recurred 
in the press conferences: the President's remarks about his running 
developed a singular tone, one which we find in few statements 
made by public individuals on such a matter. The press conference became 
a stage which betrayed the drift of his private thinking, rather than 
his convictions. He commented- thoughtfully, a reporter told us- 
that it was "not too important for the individual how he ends up". 
He gave us a simile to explain his admission that even at the worst 
period of his second illness it never occurred to him there was any 
renewed question about his running: as in the Battle of the Bulge, 
he had no fears about the outcome until he read the American newspapers. 
Yet the attitude that the fate of the Presidency demands in such 
a situation is quite distinct from the simple courage that can proceed 
with battles to be fought, regardless of the consequences. In this 
case others should not have had to raise the doubts and fears. The 
Presidency demands an incisive awareness of the larger implications 
of the death of any incumbent. It is of the utmost importance to the 
people of America and of the world how their governing President "ends 
up" during the four years of his term. Only when that term is 
ended and he is a private citizen again can he be permitted the freedom 
and the courage to discount the dangers of his death. Ironically enough, 
in this instance such personal virtues were a luxury.   At 
the national and international level, then, what is the highest kind 
of morality for the private citizen represents an instance of political 
immorality. And we had the uneasy sense that the cleavage between the 
moral and the political progressed amid the events which concern us. 
For the tone of the editorials which greeted Mr& Eisenhower's 
original announcement of his running had been strangely disquieting. 
Neither the vibrant enthusiasm which bespeaks a people's intuitive 
sense of the fitness of things at climactic moments nor the vital argumentation 
betraying its sense that something significant has transpired 
was in evidence. Nothing testifies more clearly to that cleavage than 
the peculiar editorial page appearing in a July issue of <Life Magazine>, 
the issue which also carried the second announcement of the 
candidacy. The double editorial on two aspects of "The U& S& 
Spirit" was subtly calculated to suggest a moral sanction for gambles 
great as well as small, reflecting popular approval of this questionable 
attitude toward the highest office in the land. "The Moral 
Creed" and "The Will to Risk" live happily together, if we 
do not examine where the line is to be drawn. "I may possibly be a 
greater risk than is the normal person of my age", the President had 
said on February 29th of the election year, ignoring the fact that 
no one of his age had ever lived out another term. "My doctors assure 
me that this increased percentage of risk is not great". But by 
the time the risk was doubled, events had dismissed from his mind both 
increased percentages and a previously stated intention of considering 
carefully anything more serious than a bout of influenza. Only infrequently 
did the situation color his thinking. Ironically no president 
we have had would have regretted more than President Eisenhower the 
possibility to which his own words, in the press conference held at 
the beginning of August, testified: that unable as he was himself 
to say his running was best for the country, unconsciously he had placed 
his party before his nation.   So it is that we relive his opening 
statement in the first television address with the dramatic immediacy 
of the present. No consideration of risk urges itself upon him 
now: for this is what the mind does with the ideas on which it has not 
properly focussed. Yet with a mind less shallow, if less sharp, than 
some of the fortune-happy syndicates which back him, he feels what 
he cannot formulate; and we watch him amid the overtones which suggest 
he could never in any conscience urge a risk upon the voters. Moving 
as he is into the phase of the campaign which demands conviction of 
him, he adopts a position that is morally indefensible. He ascribes 
to the mercy of God the peace which this personal matter- the assurance 
that he can physically sustain the burden of the office longer 
than any individual in the history of our nation has been able to do- 
has brought him. What is simply an opinion formed in defiance of the 
laws of human probability, whether or not it is later confirmed, has 
become by September of the election year "a firm conviction". 
As 
a means of silencing a discussion which ought to have taken place, the 
statement is an effective one: we sympathize with the universal confusion 
which gives rise to such convictions. But it is also the climax 
to one of the absorbing chapters in our current political history.

In assigning to God the responsibility which he learned could 
not rest with his doctors, Eisenhower gave evidence of that weakening 
of the moral intuition which was to characterize his administration 
in the years to follow. In any other man this reassurance to the electorate 
would have caused us a profound moral shock. About this man we 
had to think twice. We knew that it was, as reassurance, the ironic 
fruit of a deeply moral nature. But the fact remains that even the unconscious 
acceptance of himself as a man of destiny divinely protected 
must be censored in any man who evades the responsibility for his major 
decisions, and thus for imposing his will on the people. And in the 
context of drifting personal utterances we have examined, there was 
occasional evidence of the origin of all such evasions. When the possibility 
that he had not given reconsideration to so weighty a decision 
seemed 
to disconcert his questioners, Mr& Eisenhower was known to 
make his characteristic statement to the press that he was not going 
to talk about the matter any more. Thinking had stopped; it was not 
to be resumed.   The portrait that had developed, fragmentarily 
but consistently, was the portrait of a man to whom serious thinking 
is alien enough that the making of a decision inhibits, when it does not 
forestall, any ability to review the decision in the light of new evidence. 
This does not mean that the decision to run for office should 
inevitably have been revoked. Instead it means that the thinking in 
which decision issues has the power to determine the morality of the 
decision, as in this instance the pressure for renewed practical or legislative 
attention to the constitutional problems the decision had uncovered 
might have done. Drifting through a third illness, apparently 
without any provision for the handling of a major national emergency 
other than a talk with the vice-president, Eisenhower revealed the singularly 
static quality of his thinking. Despite three warnings, no 
sense of moral urgency impelled him to distinguish his situation, and 
thus his responsibilities, from Wilson's. ##

By contrast, the 
energetic reaction of the leader to the full demands his decision imposes 
upon him strengthens the moral intuition and gives us the measure 
of the man. Only by means of an intensive preoccupation with the detailed 
considerations following from any decision can he ensure attention 
to the practical details to be dealt with if the implications of immorality 
in the major decision are effectively to be checked. In the 
incessant struggle with recalcitrant political fact he learns to focus 
the essence of a problem in the significant detail, and to articulate 
the distinctions which clarify the detail as significant, with what 
is sometimes astounding rapidity. Like Lincoln, he can distinguish 
his relation to God from the constitutional responsibilities a questionable 
decision exacts of him. Like Roosevelt, he can distinguish an 
attitude toward a Russian leader he may share with a host of Americans 
from the responsibilities diplomatic convention may impose upon him. 
He chooses to subordinate one to the other, sometimes reluctantly, 
accepting criticism for the lesser immoralities facts breed. The very 
nature of a choice so grounded in distinction and fact leads to the 
valid convictions which become force of will in the manifest leader. 
The capacity for making the distinctions of which diplomacy is compact, 
and the facility with language which can render them into validity 
in the eyes of other men are the leader's means for transforming the 
moral intuition into moral leadership.   The making of distinctions, 
like the perception of the great distinctions made, is an inordinately 
difficult business. Lincoln's slow progress towards the several 
marking his achievement is even now unrecognizable as such, and loosely 
interpreted as the alternation of inconsistency with vision. But 
because it is the function of the mind to turn the one into the other 
by means of the capacities with which words endow it, we do not unwisely 
examine the type of distinction, in the sphere of politics, on which 
decisions hang. Only recently, and perhaps because a television debate 
can so effectively dramatize President Kennedy's extraordinary 
mastery of detail, have the abilities on which the capacity for making 
distinctions depend begun to be clearly discernible at the level of 
politics. 
In his recent evaluation of Kennedy's potentialities for 
leadership, Walter Lippmann has cited the "precision" of his mind, 
his "immense command" of factual detail, and his "instinct for 
the crucial point" as impressive in the extreme; and it is surely 
clear that the first of these is the result of the way in which the 
individual's command of language interacts with the other two. 
For this change is not a change from one positive position to another, 
but a change from order and truth to disorder and negation. The 
liberal-conservative 
division, we might observe in passing, is not of itself 
directly involved in a private interest conflict nor even in struggle 
between ruling groups. Rather it is rooted in a difference of response 
to the threat of social disintegration. The division is not between 
those who wish to preserve what they have and those who want change. 
Rather it is a division established by two absolutely different ways 
of thought with regard to man's life in society. These ways are 
absolutely irreconcilable because they offer two different recipes for 
man's redemption from chaos.   The civilizational crisis, the 
third type of change raises the question "what are we to do"? 
on the most primitive level. For the answer cannot be derived from any 
socially cohesive element in the disrupting community. There is no 
socially existential answer to the question. For the truth formerly experienced 
by the community no longer has existential status in the community, 
nor does any answer elaborated by philosophers or theoriticians. 
In this phase of change, no idea has social acceptance and so none 
has ontological status in the community. An interregnum ensues in which 
not men but ideas compete for existence.   If we examine the 
three types of change from the point of view of their internal structure 
we find an additional profound difference between the third and the 
first two, one that accounts for the notable difference between the 
responses they evoke. The first two types of change occur within the 
inward and immanent structure of the society. The first involves a simple 
shift of interests in the society. The second involves something 
deeper, but its characteristic form focuses on a shift in policy for 
the community, not in the truth on which the community rests. Thus in 
both types attention is focused on the community itself, and its phenomenological 
life. The third type, however, wrenches attention from 
the life of action and interests in the community and focuses it on the 
ground of being on which the community depends for its existence. Voegelin 
has analyzed this experience in the case of the stable, healthy 
community. There the community, faced with the need to formulate policy 
on the level of absolute justice, can find the answer to its problem 
in the absolute truth which it holds as partially experienced. This, 
however, cannot be done by a community whose very experience of truth 
is confused and incoherent: it has no absolute standard, and consequently 
cannot distinguish the absolute from the contingent. It has 
lost its ground of being and floats in a mist of appearances. Relativism 
and equality are its characteristic diseases. Precisely at the moment 
when it has lost its vision the mind of the community turns out 
from itself in a search for the ontological standard whereby it can measure 
itself. For paradigmatic history "breaks" rather than unfolds 
precisely when the movement is from order to disorder, and not from 
one order to a new order. The liberal-conservative split, to define 
it further, derives from a basic difference concerning the existential 
status of standard sought and about the spiritual experience that leads 
to its identification.   When disruptive change has penetrated 
to the third level of social order, the process of disruption rapidly 
reaches a point of no return. Indeed, it is probable that this point 
is reached the moment the third level of change begins. At that point 
we reach the "closed" historical situation: the situation in 
which man is no longer free to return to a <status quo ante>. At that 
point men become aware of the mystery of history called variously "fate", 
or "destiny", or "providence", and feel themselves 
caught helplessly in the writhing of a disrupted society. The reasons 
for this experience are rooted in the metaphysical characteristics of 
such a change.   Of all forms of being, society, or community, 
has the greatest element of determinability. Its ontological status is 
itself most tenuous because apart from individual men, who are its "matter", 
tradition, the "form" of society exists only as a shared 
perception of truth. The ontological status of society thus is constituted 
by the psychological-intellectual-volitional status of society's 
members. The content of that psychological status determines, 
ultimately, the content of civilization. Those social, civilizational 
factors not rooted in the human spirit of the group, ultimately cease 
to exist. Civilization itself- tradition- falls out of existence 
when the human spirit itself becomes confused. Civilization is what 
man has made of himself. Its massive contours are rooted in the simple 
need of man, since he is always incomplete, to complete himself.

It is not enough for man to be an ontological esse. He needs existential 
completion, he needs, that is, to move in the direction of completion. 
And the direction of that movement is determined by his perception 
of the truth about himself. He must, consequently, exist as a 
self-perceived substantive, developing agent, or he does not exist as 
man. Thus, it is no mystical intuition, but an analyzable conception 
to say that man and his tradition can "fall out of existence". This 
happens at the moment man loses the perception of moral substance 
in himself, of a nature that, in Maritain's words, is perceived as 
a "locus of intelligible necessities". An existentialist is a man 
who perceives himself only as "esse", as existence without substance.

Thus human perception and human volition is the immanent 
cause of all social change and this most truly when the change reaches 
the civilizational level. Thus with regard to the loss of tradition, 
in the change from order to disorder the metaphysics of change works 
itself out as a disruption of the individual soul, a change in which man 
continues as an objective ontological existent, but no longer as a 
man.   Further, change is a form of motion, it occurs as the act 
of a being in potency insofar as it is in potency and has not yet reached 
the terminus of the change. With regard to the change we are examining, 
the question is, at what point does the change become irreversible? 
A number of considerations suggest that this occurs early in 
the process. Change involves the displacement of form. This means that 
the inception of change itself can begin only when the factors conducive 
to change have already become more powerful than those anchoring 
the existent form in being. If the existent form is to be retained new 
factors that reinforce it must be introduced into the situation. In 
the case of social decay, form is displaced simply by the process of 
dissolution with no form at the terminus of the process. Now in the 
mere fact of the beginning of such displacement we have prima-facie evidence 
of the ontological weakness of the fading form. And when we consider 
the tenuous hold tradition has on existence, any weakening of that 
hold constitutes a crisis of existence. The retention of a tradition 
confronted with such a crisis necessitates the introduction of new 
spiritual forces into the situation. However, the crisis occurs precisely 
as a weakening of spiritual forces. It would seem, therefore, that 
in a civilizational crisis man cannot save himself. The emergence 
of the crisis itself would seem to constitute a warranty for the victory 
of disorder. And it would seem that history is a witness to this 
truth.   As a further characterization of the liberal conservative 
split we may observe that it involves differences in the formula for 
escaping inevitabilities in history. These differences, in turn, derive 
from prior differences concerning the friendly or hostile character 
of change. 

#UNANALYZED RESPONSES#

ANXIETY AND DEEP INSECURITY 
are the characteristic responses evoked by the crisis in tradition. 
To experience them, it is not necessary for a people to be actively 
aware of what is happening to it. The process of erosion need only 
undermine the tradition and a series of consequences begin unfolding 
within the individual, while in institutions a quiet but deep transformation 
of processes occurs. Within the individual the reaction has been 
called various names, all, however, pointing to the same basic experience. 
Weil identifies it as being "rootless", Guardini as being 
"placeless", Riesman as being "lonely". Others call it "alienation", 
and mean by that no simple economic experience (as Marx 
does) but a deep spiritual sense of dislocation. Within institutions 
there is a marked decline of the process of persuasion and the substitution 
of a force-fear process which masquerades as the earlier one 
of persuasion. We note the use of rhetoric as a weapon, the manipulation 
of the masses by propaganda, the "mobilization" of effort and 
resources.   Within this context of spontaneous and unanalyzed 
responses to the experience of civilizational crisis, two basic organizations 
of response are observable: reaction and ideological progressivism. 
These responses are explicable in terms of characteristics inherent 
in the crisis. Both are predictably destined to fail.   The 
response of reaction is dominated by a concern for what is vanishing. 
Its essence lies in its attempt to recover previous order through 
the repression of disruptive forces. To this end political authority 
is called upon to exercise its negative and coercive powers. The implicit 
assumption of this response is that history is reversible. Seemingly, 
order is perceived as a kind of subsistent entity now covered by 
adventitious accretions. The problem is to remove the accretions and 
thereby uncover the order that was always there. Such a response, of 
course, misses the point that in crisis order is going out of existence. 
Moreover its posture of stubborn but simple resistance is doomed 
to failure because of the metaphysical weakness of the existent form of 
order, once the activation of change has reached visible proportions. 
The most reaction can achieve is stasis, and a stasis that can be maintained 
only by the expenditure of an effort which ultimately exhausts 
itself.   Despite the hopelessness of the response, it is explicable 
in terms of the crisis of tradition itself. Since a civilizational 
crisis involves also a crisis in private interests and in the ruling 
class, reaction is normally found among those who feel themselves 
to be among the ruling class. Their great error is to mingle the responses 
typical of each of the three types of change. Since civilizational 
change is the most difficult to perceive and analyze, it seldom is 
given adequate attention. And the anxiety it generates is misinterpreted 
as anxiety over private interest and threatened social status.

The basic truth in the reactionary response is to be found in its 
realistic assumption of the primacy of the real over the ideational. 
But this truth is distorted by its extreme application: the assumption 
of the separate existence of tradition. The reactionary misses 
the point that tradition exists ontologically only in the form of 
psychological-intellectual 
relations. Reactionary theories, for this reason, 
usually assume some form of organismic theory. In its defensive 
formulations, the theory will attack conscious change on the grounds of 
the independent existence of the community. In its dynamic form, it 
visualizes the community as the embodiment of an ontological force- 
the race, for instance, which unfolds in history. In both cases the 
individual tends to be treated as an instrument of the organic reality.

When the reactionary response is thus bolstered by an intellectual 
defense, the characteristics of that defense are explicable only 
in terms of the basic attitudes of unanalyzed reaction. Reaction is 
rooted in a perception of tradition as a whole. It is a total situation 
that is defended: the "good old days". There is no selectivity; 
even the questionable features of the past are defended. The point 
is that the reactionary, for whatever motive, perceives himself to 
have been part or a partner of something that extended beyond himself, 
something which, consequently, he was not able to accept or reject 
on the basis of subjective preference. The reactionary is confused about 
the existential status of a decaying tradition, but he does perceive 
the unity tradition had when it was healthy.

All of which brings up another problem in the use of psychoanalytic 
insight in a literary work. Is the Oedipus complex, the clinical 
syndrome, material for a tragedy? If we remove ourselves for a moment 
from our time and our infatuation with mental disease, isn't there 
something absurd about a hero in a novel who is defeated by his infantile 
neurosis? I am not making a clinical judgment here, for such 
personal tragedies are real and are commonplace in the analyst's 
consulting room, but literature makes a different claim upon our sympathies 
than tragedy in life. A man in a novel who is defeated in his childhood 
and condemned by unconscious forces within him to tiredly repeat 
his earliest failure in love, only makes us a little weary of man; 
his tragedy seems unworthy and trivial.   Now we can argue that 
the irresistible fate of Oedipus Rex was nothing more than the irresistible 
unconscious longings of Oedipus projected outward, but this 
externalization of unconscious conflict makes all the difference between 
a story and a clinical case history. We can also argue that the 
three brothers Karamazov and Smerdyakov were the external representatives 
of an internal conflict within one man, Dostoevsky, a conflict 
having to 
do with father-murder and the wish to possess the father's woman. But 
a novel in which one man Karamazov explored the divisions within 
his personality would scarcely merit publication in the <Psychoanalytic 
Quarterly>.   It is a mistake to look upon the Oedipus of 
Oedipus Complex as a literary descendant of Oedipus Rex. Whatever 
the psychological truth in the Oedipus myth, an Oedipus who is drawn 
to his fate by irresistible external forces can carry the symbol of 
humanity and its archaic crime, and the incest that is unknowing renews 
the mystery of the eternal dream of childhood and absorbs us in the 
secret. But a modern Oedipus who is doomed because he cannot oppose 
his own childhood is only pathetic, and for renouncing the mystery 
in favor of psychological truth he gives up the claim on our sympathies.

I am suggesting that a case-history approach to the Oedipus 
complex is a blind alley for a storyteller. The best gifts of the novelist 
will be wasted on the reader who is insulated against any surprises 
the novelist may have in store for him. Incest is still a durable 
theme, but if it wants to get written about it will have to find ways 
to surprise the emotions, and there is no better way to do this than 
that of concealment and symbolic representation. And the best way to 
conceal and disguise the elements of an incest story is not to set out 
to write an incest story. Which brings to mind another Lawrence story 
and some interesting comparisons in the treatment of the Oedipal 
theme.   "The Rocking Horse Winner" is also a story about 
a boy's love for his mother. If I now risk some comparisons with 
<Sons and Lovers> let it be clear that I am not comparing the two 
works or judging their merits; I am only singling out differences 
in treatment of a theme and the resultant effects. "The Rocking Horse 
Winner" is a fantasy with extraordinary power to disturb the 
reader- but we do not know why. It is the story of the hopeless love 
of a little boy for his cold and vain mother. There are ghostly scenes 
in which the little boy on his rocking horse rocks madly toward the 
climax that will magically give him the name of the winning horse. The 
child grows rich on his winnings and conspires with his uncle to make 
secret gifts of his money to his mother. The story ends in the child's 
illness and delirium brought on by the feverish compulsion to 
ride his horse to win for his mother. The child dies with his mourning 
mother at his bedside.   I had read the story many times without 
asking myself why it affected me or caring why it did. But on one 
occasion when I encountered a similar fantasy in a little boy who was 
my patient I began to understand the uncanny effects of this story. 
It was, of course, a little boy's fantasy of winning his mother to 
himself, and replacing the father who could not give her the things she 
wanted- a classical oedipal fantasy if you like- but if it were 
only this the story would be banal. Why does the story affect us? How 
does the rocking exert its uncanny effect upon the reader? The 
rocking is actually felt in the story, a terrible and ominous rhythm that 
prophesies the tragedy. The rocking, I realized, is the single element 
in the story that carries the erotic message, the unspoken and 
unconscious undercurrent that would mar the innocence of a child's fantasy 
and disturb the effects of the work if it were made explicit. The 
rocking has the ambiguous function of keeping the erotic undercurrent 
silent and making it present; it conceals and yet is suggestive; 
a perfect symbol. And if we understand the rocking as an erotic symbol 
we can also see how well it serves as the symbol of impending tragedy. 
For this love of the boy for his mother is a hopeless and forbidden 
love, doomed by its nature.   We are also struck by the fact 
that this story of a boy's love for his mother does not offend, while 
the incestuous love of the man, Paul Morel, sometimes repels. It's 
easy to see why. This love belongs to childhood; we accord it 
its place there, and in Lawrence's treatment we are given the innocent 
fantasy of a child, in fact, the form in which oedipal love is expressed 
in childhood. And when the child dies in Lawrence's story 
in a delirium that is somehow brought on by his mania to win and to make 
his mother rich, the manifest absurdity of such a disease and such 
a death does not enter into our thoughts at all. We have so completely 
entered the child's fantasy that his illness and his death are the 
plausible and the necessary conclusion.   I am sure that none 
of the effects of this story were consciously employed by Lawrence to 
describe an oedipal fantasy in childhood. It is most probable that 
Freud and the Oedipus complex never entered his head in the writing 
of this story. He was simply writing a story that wanted to be told, 
and in the writing a childhood fantasy of his own emerged. He would not 
have cared why it emerged, he only wanted to capture a memory to play 
with it again in his imagination and somehow to fix and hold in the 
story the disturbing emotions that accompanied the fantasy.   In 
our own time we have seen that the novelist's debt to psychoanalysis 
has increased but that the novel itself has not profited much from 
this marriage. Ortega's hope that modern psychology might yet bring 
forth a last flowering of the novel has only been partially fulfilled. 
The young writer seems intimidated by psychological knowledge; he 
has lost confidence in his own eyes and in the validity of his own psychological 
insights. He borrows the insights of psychology to improve 
his impaired vision but cannot bring to his work the distinctive vision 
that should be a novelist's own. He has been seduced by the marvels 
of the unconscious and has lost interest in studying the surfaces 
of character. If many of the characters in contemporary novels appear 
to be the bloodless relations of characters in a case history it is 
because the novelist is often forgetful today that those things that 
we call character manifest themselves in surface behavior, that the ego 
is still the executive agency of personality, and that all we know of 
personality must be discerned through the ego. The novelist who has 
been badly baptized in psychoanalysis often gives us the impression that 
since all men must have an Oedipus complex all men must have the 
same faces. #/2,.#

I have argued that Oedipus of the Oedipus 
complex has a doubtful future as a tragic figure in literature. But a 
writer who has a taste for irony and who sees incest in all its modern 
dimensions can let his imagination work on the disturbing joke in the 
incest myth, the joke that strikes right at the center of man's humanness. 
Moral dread is seen as the other face of desire, and here psychoanalysis 
delivers to the writer a magnificent irony and a moral problem 
of great complexity.   There is probably some significance 
in the fact that two of the best incest stories I have encountered 
in recent years are burlesques of the incest myth. The ancient types 
are reassembled in gloom and foreboding to be irresistibly drawn to their 
destinies, but the myth fails before the modern truth; the oracle 
speaks false and the dream speaks true. In both the farmer's tale 
in Ralph Ellison's <Invisible Man> and in Thomas Mann's <The 
Holy Sinner>, the incest hero rises above the myth by accepting 
the wish as motive; the heroic act is the casting off of pretense.

Thomas Mann wrote <The Holy Sinner> in 1951. It was conceived 
as a leave-taking, a kind of melancholy gathering-in of the myths 
of the West, "<bevor die Nacht sinkt, eine lange Nacht vielleicht 
und ein tiefes Vergessen>". He chose a medieval legend of 
incest, Gregorius vom Stein, and freely borrowed and parodied other 
myths of the West, mixing themes, language, peoples and times in a master 
myth in which the old forms continually renew themselves, as in his 
previous treatment of Joseph.   But <The Holy Sinner> is 
not simply a retelling of old stories for an old man's entertainment. 
Mann understood better than most men the incest comedy at the center 
of the myth and the psychological truth in which dread is shown as 
the other face as longing was for him just the kind of deep and complicated 
joke he liked to tell. And when he retold the legend of Gregorius 
he interpolated a modern version in which the medieval players speak 
contemporary thoughts in archaic language; while they move through 
the pageantry of the ancient incest myth and cover themselves through 
not-knowing, they reveal the unconscious motive in seeking each other 
and in the last scene make an extraordinary confession of guilt in the 
twentieth-century manner.   Grigorss is the child of an incestuous 
union between a royal brother and sister, the twins Sibylla and 
Wiligis. He is born in secrecy after the death of his father and cast 
adrift soon after birth. The infant is discovered by a fisherman who 
brings him home to rear him. An ivory tablet in the infant's cask 
recounts the story of his sinful origins and is preserved for the child 
by the monks of a monastery in the fishing village. Grigorss, at 
seventeen, learns his story and goes forth as a knight to uncover his 
origins. His sailing vessel is guided by fate to the shores of his own 
country at a time when Sibylla's domain is overrun by the armies 
of one of her rejected suitors. Grigorss overcomes the suitor in battle, 
delivers the city from its oppressors and marries Sibylla who had 
fallen in love with the beautiful knight the moment she saw him.

Sibylla is pregnant with their second child when she finds the ivory 
tablet concealed by her husband, and the identities of mother and son 
are revealed. Grigorss goes off to do penance on a rock for seventeen 
years. At the end of this period two pious Christians in Rome receive 
the revelation which leads them to seek the next Pope on the rock. 
Grigorss comes to Rome and becomes a great and beloved Pope. In 
the last pages of the book Sibylla comes to Rome to seek an audience 
with the great Pope and to give her confession. Mother and son recognize 
each other and, in Mann's version of this legend, make a remarkable 
confession of guilt to each other, the confession of unconscious 
motive and unconscious knowledge of their true identities from the 
time they had first set eyes on each other. 
In recollection he has said: "Natural or man-made objects kept coming 
into my head, but I would suppress them sternly". Moreover, 
he organized the movement of his forms, within his rigorously shaped space, 
into highly complex equilibriums; and used gradations of color 
value as well as sharply contrasting elementary colors.   The worthy 
Mondrian, seeing these pictures, said in a tone of kindly reproof: 
"But you are really an artist of the naturalistic tradition"! 
Helion did not realize it at the time, but it was true.   His 
"monumental" abstraction, made up of smooth, metallic "non-objects" 
acting upon each other with great tension, won Helion much 
acclaim during the 'thirties. The play of novel lighting effects also 
entered into these compositions, whose controlled power and varied 
activity made them well worth meditating.   As Helion's work 
showed more and more nostalgia for the world of man and nature, the pure 
abstractionists expressed some disapproval; but Leger, Arp, Lipchitz 
and Alexander Calder, at the time, gave him their blessing. His 
canvases nowadays bore titles frankly declaring them to be "Figures 
in Space", or "Blue Figure", or "Pink Figure"; and 
they had (vaguely) heads and feet. Exhibited in shows in London in 
1935, and in New York the following year, the new, more elaborated 
abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional 
dramas of great intellectual coherence. At this period 
the thirty-year old Helion was ranked "as one of the mature leaders 
of the modern movement", according to Herbert Read, "and in the 
direct line of descent from Cezanne, Seurat, Gris and Leger". In 
America, Meyer Schapiro observed that, unlike the Mondrian school, 
Helion "sought a return path to the fullness of nature within the 
framework of abstract art".   It is notable that at this time 
he was writing with admiration of Cimabue's and Poussin's way 
of filling space. Abstract art was still the right path for him; but, 
he 
held, instead of continuing as an "art of reduction", it must grow, 
must make a place for the contributions of the Raphaels and Poussins 
as well as for those of the early cubists and Mondrian.   Later 
Helion wrote of this phase: "For years I built for myself 
a subtle instrument of relationships- colors and forms without a name. 
I played on it my secret songs, unexplained, passionate and peaceful".

But his own work was evolving further. The extreme limitations 
he sensed in all current abstract art made that seem to him increasingly 
arid and cold. He was engaged in constant experiments that 
searched for new directions. Where would it all lead? He himself 
did not know, as he said in 1935. But he was "afraid of the future- 
he would in fact welcome a way back to social integration, a functional 
art of some kind".   During the 1920's the Abstractionists, 
the German Bauhaus group of industrial designers, and the new 
architects all had the dream of some well ordered utopia, or welfare 
state, in which their neat and logical constructions might find their 
proper place. But whereas the postwar American abstractionists seem 
to Helion to be determined to "escape" from the real world, or simply 
to rebel against it, the <ordered> abstractions which he and his 
associates of the 1930's were painting embodied the hope of "improving" 
things. "We were possessed by visions of a new civilization 
to come, very pure and elevated", he has said, "in fact some ideal 
form of socialism such as we had dreamed of since the war of 1914-1918".

Instead of this the 1930's witnessed a tragic economic 
depression, the rise of Fascist dictators in Europe, the wasting 
Civil War in Spain. Very much the political man, Helion felt himself 
deeply affected by the increasingly pessimistic atmosphere of France 
and all Europe, whose foundations seemed to him more and more shaky. 
In 1936 he decided to migrate to America. The Rooseveltian America 
was a haven of liberalism and progress and seemed to him to constitute 
the last best hope for civilization. Helion also hoped that 
America's mastery of technology and industrial efficiency would be 
accompanied by the production of new and beautiful art works. "I arrived 
in the United States with the idea of establishing myself there 
more or less permanently and finding inspiration for new compositions".

In New York he was well received by what was then only 
a small brave band of non-figurative artists, including Alexander Calder, 
George K& L& Morris, De Kooning, Holty and a few others. 
After a year in a studio on Sheridan Square, having married an 
American girl who was a native of Virginia, Helion moved to a village 
in the Blue Ridge mountains, where he produced some of the most 
imposing of his abstract canvases.   The darkening world scene, 
at the time of the Munich Pact, continued to trouble his mind even in 
his remote Virginia studio. "Fear possessed me, and the certainty 
of war", he has related. "I truly smelled blood, death, heaps of 
corpses everywhere". In haste he labored to finish some last abstract 
paintings: a three-panel frieze, with a flying figure and a fallen 
figure; a "Double-Figure", which went to the Chicago Art 
Institute, and is considered by him the most successful of his abstracts; 
and in early 1939, a "Fallen Figure" of very ominous character, 
which concluded his abstract phase. "I knew I was carrying 
on with abstraction to its very end- for me", he said of the two 
years' output in Virginia. With those paintings of big constructions 
crashing down, he felt he could stop. They were, in effect his last 
testament to non-objective art.   He had taken out first papers 
for American citizenship; but after war came to Europe, he decided 
to return to France, arriving there in January, 1940. "I hated 
the war", he said, "but thought I ought to go because I was, perhaps, 
one of those who hadn't done enough to prevent it". ## 

In June, 1940, Sergeant Helion, with a company of reserve troops waiting 
to go into battle, was sketching the hills south of the Loire 
River, when the war suddenly rolled in upon him. Its first apparition 
was a long, gloomy column of refugees riding in farm wagons, or pushing 
prams. His company then carried out a confused retreating movement 
until it was surrounded by the Germans, a few days before France capitulated. 
After a sort of death march during four days without food, 
Helion and his comrades were shipped by cattle-car to a labor camp 
at an estate farm in East Germany. A year later they were removed to 
a Stalag in the harbor of Stettin. At the time of his capture Helion 
had on his person a sketchbook he had bought at Woolworth's in 
New York. When he was stripped, deloused and numbered by his guards, 
his much-thumbed sketchbook was seized and thrown on a pile of prisoners' 
goods to be confiscated. "It was then I knew that they were 
making war against Man, the individual within!- who questioned 
things when given orders".   At Stettin the university-educated 
artist, who had studied German, was chosen to serve as interpreter 
and clerk in the office of the Stalag commander. In secret he also 
acted as a member of the prisoners' Central Committee, which plotted 
sabotage, planned a few escapes, and maintained a hidden control over 
the wretched French slave-laborers.   In the Stalag, Helion 
came to know and love his comrades, most of them plain folk, who, in 
their extremity, showed true courage and ran great risks to help each 
other. How much they esteemed him is shown by the fact that their underground 
committee selected him as one of the few who would be helped 
to escape. In the prison camp's Black Market civilian clothes were 
quietly bought and forged papers were devised for him; during long 
weeks the plan for his flight was rehearsed.   Every morning 
contingents of prisoners would be sent out to labor in nearby factories. 
One evening, while a volley-ball game was being played in the yard 
among the prisoners remaining there, a simulated melee was staged- 
just as the gates were opened to admit other prisoners returning from 
work. As Helion wrote afterward: "  Their sentry followed 
**h Four hands were stretched toward me by my comrades behind me. Marquet 
held my briefcase; Finot held a wallet with my money and papers; 
Moineau and David held nothing but their fingers **h They felt 
rough and kind and warm. At this moment the volley-ball hit the ground. 
Duclos ran toward Desprez with fists raised. The guards all 
rushed up to intervene **h"   Shedding his prison cloak, Helion 
shot through the gates, now clad in civilian garments and with the 
passport of a Flemish worker. Riding trains, hitching hikes on trucks 
across Germany, slipping through guarded frontiers with the help of 
secret guides, he eventually reached Vichy France, and, by the winter 
of 1943, was back in Virginia. He wrote: "  To escape from 
a prison camp required a very special state of mind; not only loathing 
of captivity, but a faith, a hope that is even stronger. I left 
behind me brave men, whom captivity had robbed of all hope. They too 
loved their families, longed for their villages: yet lacked the faith 
that drove one to dare **h the fearful chance of escape". 
It was a time of revelations for him. Even the most rational of men, 
under great stress, may be transported by a new faith and behave like 
mystics. Helion knew that he owed his freedom as much to the self-sacrifice 
of his fellow-men in Arbeitskommando /13,, Stettin, as to 
his own fierce 
will and love of life. After that, he declared, "to return to 
freedom was to fall to one's knees before the real world and adore 
it". In prison he had been able to sketch nothing but figures from 
life, his guards, his companions in misery. Now all his desires centered 
on "rediscovering and singing of the prosaic and yet beautiful 
world of men and objects so long barred from me by a barbed wire fence". 
And, he added: "During the many months in prison camp, all 
abstract images vanished from my mind".   Before leaving for America, 
he happened to see his old friend Jean Arp and confided to 
him his new resolutions. Arp protested: "But it is impossible! 
Everything in the way of representation has already been done by the 
old masters". Helion, however, clung to the belief that "in escaping 
from the Stalag I had also escaped from Abstraction".

While convalescing in his Virginia home he wrote a book recording 
his prison experiences and escape, entitled: <They Shall Not Have 
Me> **h Published originally in (Helion's) English by Dutton 
+ Co& of New York, in 1943, the book was received by the press 
as a work of astonishing literary power and one of the most realistic 
accounts of World War /2, from the French side. It was very widely 
read, too; and the author, who seemed the embodiment of France's 
rising spirit of resistance to her conquerors, was much complimented 
for his daring military action. But when he showed his new figurative 
pictures to his artist friends of the abstract camp, they paid him 
no compliments and drew long faces.   Between 1944 and 1947 Helion 
had a series of one-man shows- at the Paul Rosenberg Gallery 
in New York and in Paris- of his new realistic pictures. They reincarnated 
the figures of human beings banished from his canvases since 
the 1920's. These new pictures focussed on the familiar and commonplace 
objects that he had heard the men in his prison camp talking 
about as the things they missed most, hence associated with the sense 
of lost freedom: the cafe at the corner, the newspaper kiosk, the girls 
in doorways and windows along the street, the golden-crusted French 
bread they lacked, the cigarettes denied them. One of the pictures 
was of a man with hat drawn over his face ceremoniously lighting a cigarette; 
others were of men doffing their hats to each other, carrying 
umbrellas with pomp, reading newspapers, or simply showing loaves of 
bread spread out.

Important as was Mr& O'Donnell's essay, his thesis is 
so restricting as to deny Faulkner the stature which he obviously has. 
He and also Mr& Cowley and Mr& Warren have fallen to the temptation 
which besets many of us to read into our authors- Nathaniel 
Hawthorne, for example, and Herman Melville- protests against 
modernism, material progress, and science which are genuine protests of 
our own but may not have been theirs. Faulkner's total works today, 
and in fact those of his works which existed in 1946 when Mr& Cowley 
made his comment, or in 1939, when Mr& O'Donnell wrote his 
essay, reveal no such simple attitude toward the South. If he is a 
traditionalist, he is an eclectic traditionalist. If he condemns the 
recent or the present, he condemns the past with no less force. If he 
sees the heroic in a Sartoris or a Sutpen, he sees also- and he 
shows- the blind and the mean, and he sees the Compson family disintegrating 
from within. If the barn-burner's family produces a Flem 
Snopes, who personifies commercialism and materialism in hyperbolic 
crassness, the Compson family produces a Jason Compson /4,. Faulkner 
is a most untraditional traditionalist.   Others writing on 
Faulkner have found the phrase "traditional moralist" either inadequate 
or misleading. Among them are Frederick J& Hoffman, William 
Van O'Connor, and Mrs& Olga Vickery. They have indicated 
the direction but they have not been explicit enough, I believe, in 
pointing out Faulkner's independence, his questioning if not indeed 
challenging the Southern tradition. Faulkner's is not the mind 
of the apologist which Mr& O'Donnell implies that it is. He is 
not one to remain more comfortably and unquestioningly within a body 
of social, cultural, or literary traditions than he was within the traditions- 
or possibly the regulations- governing his tenure in the 
post office at Oxford, Mississippi, thirty-five years ago.   That 
is not to deny that he has been aware of traditions, of course, that 
he is steeped in them, in fact, or that he has dealt with them, in 
his books. It is to say rather, I believe, that he has brought to bear 
on the history, the traditions, and the lore of his region a critical, 
skeptical mind- the same mind which has made of him an inveterate 
experimenter in literary form and technique. He has employed from 
his section rich immediate materials which in a loose sense can be termed 
Southern. The fact that he has cast over those materials the light 
of a skeptical mind does not make him any the less Southern, I rather 
think, for the South has been no more solid than other regions except 
in the political and related areas where patronage and force and 
intimidation and fear may produce a surface uniformity. Some of us might 
be inclined to argue, in fact, that an independence of mind and action 
and an intolerance of regimentation, either mental or physical, 
are particularly Southern traits.   There is no necessity, I suppose, 
to assert that Mr& Faulkner is Southern. It would not be 
easy to discover a more thoroughly Southern pedigree than that of his 
family. And, after all, he has lived comfortably at both Oxford, Mississippi, 
and Charlottesville, Virginia. The young William Faulkner 
in New Orleans in the 1920's impressed the novelist Hamilton 
Basso as obviously conscious of being a Southerner, and there is no 
evidence that since then he has ever considered himself any less so. 
Besides showing no inclination, apparently, to absent himself from his 
native region even for short periods, and in addition writing a shelf 
of books set in the region, he has handled in those books an astonishingly 
complete list of matters which have been important in the South 
during the past hundred years.   It is more difficult with Faulkner 
than with most authors to say what is the extent and what is 
the source of his knowledge. His own testimony is that he has read very 
little in the history of the South, implying that what he knows of 
that history has come to him orally and that he knows the world around 
him primarily from his own unassisted observation. His denials of extensive 
reading notwithstanding, it is no doubt safe to assume that he 
has spent time schooling himself in Southern history and that he has 
gained some acquaintance with the chief literary authors who have lived 
in the South or have written about the South. To believe otherwise 
would be unrealistic.   But in looking at Faulkner against 
his background in Mississippi and the South, it is important not to 
lose the broader perspective. His earliest work reflected heavy influences 
from English and continental writers. Evidence is plentiful that 
early 
and later also he has been indebted to the Gothic romancers, 
who deal in extravagant horror, to the symbolists writing at the end 
of the preceding century, and in particular to the stream-of-consciousness 
novelists, Henry James and James Joyce among them. His repeated 
experimentation with the techniques of fiction testifies to an independence 
of mind and an originality of approach, but it also shows him 
touching at many points the stream of literary development back of him. 
My intention, therefore, is not to say that Faulkner's awareness 
has been confined within the borders of the South, but rather that 
he has looked at his world as a Southerner and that presumably his outlook 
is Southern.   The ingredients of Faulkner's novels and 
stories are by no means new with him, and most of the problems he takes 
up have had the attention of authors before him. A useful comment 
on his relation to his region may be made, I think, by noting briefly 
how in handling Southern materials and Southern problems he has deviated 
from the pattern set by other Southern authors while remaining 
faithful to the essential character of the region.   The planter 
aristocracy has appeared in literature at least since John Pendleton 
Kennedy published <Swallow-Barn> in 1832 and in his genial portrait 
of Frank Meriwether presiding over his plantation dominion initiated 
the most persistent tradition of Southern literature. The thoroughgoing 
idealization of the planter society did not come, however, 
until after the Civil War when Southern writers were eager to defend 
a way of life which had been destroyed. As they looked with nostalgia 
to a society which had been swept away, they were probably no more 
than half-conscious that they painted in colors which had never existed. 
Their books found no less willing readers outside than inside the 
South, even while memories of the war were still sharp. The tradition 
reached its apex, perhaps, in the works of Thomas Nelson Page toward 
the end of the century, and reappeared undiminished as late as 1934 
in the best-selling novel <So Red the Rose>, by Stark Young. 
Although Faulkner was the heir in his own family to this tradition, 
he did not have Stark Young's inclination to romanticize and sentimentalize 
the planter society.   The myth of the Southern plantation 
has had only a tangential relation with actuality, as Francis 
Pendleton Gaines showed forty years ago, and I suspect it has had a 
far narrower acceptance as something real than has generally been supposed. 
Faulkner has found it useful, but he has employed it with his 
habitual independence of mind and skeptical outlook. Without saying or 
seeming to say that in portraying the Sartoris and the Compson families 
Faulkner's chief concern is social criticism, we can say nevertheless 
that through those families he dramatizes his comment on the 
planter dynasties as they have existed since the decades before the Civil 
War. It may be that in this comment he has broken from the conventional 
pattern more violently than in any other regard, for the treatment 
in his books is far removed from even the genial irony of Ellen 
Glasgow, who was the only important novelist before him to challenge 
the conventional picture of planter society.   Faulkner's low-class 
characters had but few counterparts in earlier Southern novels 
dealing with plantation life. They have an ancestry extending back, 
however, at least to 1728, when William Byrd described the Lubberlanders 
he encountered in the back country of Virginia and North Carolina. 
The chief literary antecedents of the Snopes clan appeared in the 
realistic, humorous writing which originated in the South and the 
Southwest in the three decades before the Civil War. These narratives 
of coarse action and crude language appeared first in local newspapers, 
as a rule, and later found their way between book covers, though 
rarely into the planters' libraries beside the morocco-bound volumes 
of Horace, Mr& Addison, Mr& Pope, and Sir Walter Scott. 
There is evidence to suggest, in fact, that many authors of the humorous 
sketches were prompted to write them- or to make them as indelicate 
as they are- by way of protesting against the artificial refinements 
which had come to dominate the polite letters of the South. William 
Gilmore Simms, sturdy realist that he was, pleaded for a natural 
robustness such as he 
found in his favorites the great Elizabethans, 
to vivify the pale writings being produced around him. Simms admired 
the raucous tales emanating from the backwoods, but he had himself social 
affiliations which would not allow him to approve them fully. Augustus 
Baldwin Longstreet, a preacher and a college and university president 
in four Southern states, published the earliest of these backwoods 
sketches and in the character Ransy Sniffle, in the accounts of 
sharp horse-trading and eye-gouging physical combat, and in the shockingly 
unliterary speech of his characters, he set an example followed 
by many after him.   Others who wrote of low characters and low 
life included Thomas Bangs Thorpe, creator of the Big Bear of Arkansas 
and Tom Owen, the Bee-Hunter; Johnson Jones Hooper, whose 
character Simon Suggs bears a close kinship to Flem Snopes in 
both his willingness to take cruel advantage of all and sundry and the 
sharpness with which he habitually carried out his will; and George 
Washington Harris, whose Tennessee hillbilly character Sut Lovingood 
perpetrated more unmalicious mischief and more unintended pain 
than any other character in literature. It would be profitable, I believe, 
to read these realistic humorists alongside Faulkner's works, 
the thought being not that he necessarily read them and owed anything 
to them directly, but rather that they dealt a hundred years ago with 
a class of people and a type of life which have continued down to our 
time, to Faulkner's time. Such a comparison reminds us that in employing 
low characters in his works Faulkner is recording actuality 
in the South and moreover is following a long-established literary precedent. 
Such characters, with their low existence and often low morality, 
produce humorous effects in his novels and tales, as they did in 
the writing of Longstreet and Hooper and Harris, but it need not be 
added that he gives them far subtler and more intricate functions than 
they had in the earlier writers; nor is there need to add that among 
them are some of the most highly individualized and most successful 
of his characters.   One of the early humorists already mentioned, 
Thomas Bangs Thorpe, can be used to illustrate another point 
where Faulkner touches authentic Southern materials and also earlier 
literary treatment of those materials. Thorpe came to Louisiana from 
the East as a young man prepared to find in the new country the setting 
of romantic adventure and idealized beauty. But Thorpe saw also 
the hardships of pioneer existence, the cultural poverty of the frontier 
settlements, and the slack morality which abounded in the new regions. 
As a consequence of the tensions thus produced in his thoughts and 
feelings, he wrote on the one hand sketches of idealized hunting trips 
and on the other an anecdote of the village of Hardscrabble, Arkansas, 
where no one had ever seen a piano; and he wrote also the masterpiece 
of frontier humor, "The Big Bear of Arkansas", in which 
earthy realism is placed alongside the exaggeration of the backwoods 
tall-tale and the awe with which man contemplates the grandeur and the 
mysteries of nature.

SOME years ago Julian Huxley proposed to an audience made 
up of members of the British Association for the Advancement of 
Science that "man's supernormal or extra-sensory faculties are [now] 
in the same case as were his mathematical faculties during the ice 
age". As a Humanist, Dr& Huxley interests himself in the possibilities 
of human development, and one thing we can say about this 
suggestion, which comes from a leading zoologist, is that, so far as he 
is concerned, the scientific outlook places no rigid limitation upon 
the idea of future human evolution.   This text from Dr& Huxley 
is sometimes used by enthusiasts to indicate that they have the permission 
of the scientists to press the case for a wonderful unfoldment 
of psychic powers in human beings. There may be a case of this sort, 
but it is not one we wish to argue, here. Even if people do, in a 
not far distant future, begin to read one another's minds, there will 
still be the question of whether what you find in another man's mind 
is especially worth reading- worth more, that is, than what you can 
read in good books. Even if men eventually find themselves able to 
look through walls and around corners, one may question whether this 
will help them to live better lives. There would be side-conclusions 
to be drawn, of course; such capacities are impressive evidence pointing 
to a conception of the human being which does not appear in the accounts 
of biologists and organic evolutionists; but the basic puzzles 
of existence would still be puzzling, and we should still have to work 
out the sort of problems we plan to discuss in this article.

All we want from Dr& Huxley's statement is the feeling that this 
is an open world, in the view of the best scientific opinion, with 
practically no directional commitments as to what may happen next, and 
no important confinements with respect to what may be possible.

It seems quite obvious that all the really difficult tasks of human 
beings arise from the fact that man is not one, but many. Each man, 
that is, is both one and many. He is a dreamer of the good society with 
a plan to put into effect, and he is an individual craftsman with 
something to make for himself and the people of his time. He is a parent 
with a child to nurture, here and now, and he is an educator who worries 
about the children half way round the world. He is a utopian with 
a stake in tomorrow and he is a vulnerable human made captive by the 
circumstances of today. He can sacrifice himself for tomorrow and 
he can sacrifice tomorrow for himself. He is a Craig's wife who agonizes 
about tobacco ash on the living room rug and he is a forgetful 
genius who goes boating with the town baker when dignitaries from the 
local university have come to call. He is the stern guardian of the status 
quo who has raised the utilitarian structures of the age, and he 
is the revolutionary poet with a gun in his hand who writes a tragic 
apologetic to posterity for the men he has killed.   What will be 
the final symmetry of the good society? For what do the utopians 
labor? Here, on a desk, is a stack of pamphlets representing the efforts 
of some of the best men of the day to penetrate these questions. 
The pamphlets are about law, the corporation, forms of government, the 
idea of freedom, the defense of liberty, the various lethargies which 
overtake our major institutions, the gap between traditional social 
ideals and the working mechanisms that have been set in motion for their 
realization. The thing that is notable in all these discussions is 
the lack of ideological ardor. There is another kind of ardor, a quiet, 
sure devotion to the fundamental decencies of human life, but no 
angry utopian contentions. Actually, you could wish for some passion, 
now and then, but when you look around the world and see the little volcanos 
of current history which partisan social passions have wrought, 
you are glad that in these pamphlets there is at least some civilized 
calm.   You could also say that in these pamphlets is a relieving 
quality of maturity. There is essential pleasantness in reading the 
writing of men who are not angry, who can contend without quarreling. 
This is the good kind of sophistication, and with all our problems 
and crises this kind of sophistication has flowered in the United States 
during recent years. A characteristic expression of such concern 
and inquiry is found in Joseph P& Lyford's introduction to <The 
Agreeable Autocracies,> a recent paperback study of the institutions 
of modern democratic society. Mr& Lyford gives voice to a temper 
that represents, we think, an achieved plateau of reflective thinking. 
After casting about for a way of describing this spirit, we decided 
that it would be better to use Mr& Lyford's introduction as 
an illustration. He begins: "  At one time it seemed as if 
the Soviet Union had done us a favor by providing a striking example 
of how not to behave towards other peoples and other nations. As 
things turned out, however, we have not profited greatly from the lesson: 
instead of persistently following a national program of our own 
we have often been satisfied to be against whatever Soviet policy seemed 
to be at the moment. Such activity may or may not have irritated 
the Kremlin, but it has frequently condemned America to an unnatural 
defensiveness that has undermined our effort to give leadership to the 
free world.   The defensiveness has been exaggerated by another 
bad habit, our tendency to rate the "goodness" or "badness" 
of other nations by the extent to which they applaud the slogans we circulate 
about ourselves. Since the slogans have little application to 
reality and are sanctimonious to boot, the applause is faint even in areas 
of the world where we should expect to find the greatest affection 
for free government. Shocked at the response to our proclamations, 
we grow more defensive, and worse, we lose our sense of humor and proportion. 
Mr& Nehru is subjected to stern lectures on neutralism by 
our Department of State, and an American President observes sourly 
that Sweden would be a little less neurotic if it were a little more 
capitalistic".   One thing you can say about Mr& Lyford is 
that he does not suffer from any insecurity as an American. Those 
who are insecure fear to be candid in self-examination. Only the strong 
look squarely at weakness. The maturity in this point of view lies 
in its recognition that no basic problem is ever solved without being 
clearly understood. Mr& Lyford continues: "  Even if the 
self portrait we distribute for popular consumption were accurate it 
would be dangerous to present it as a picture of the ideal society. We 
would be ignoring the special circumstances of other countries. The 
picture is the more treacherous when it misrepresents the facts of American 
life. The discrepancy between what we commonly profess and what 
we practice or tolerate is great, and it does not escape the notice 
of others. If our sincerity is granted, and it is granted, the discrepancy 
can only be explained by the fact that we have come to believe 
hearsay and legend about ourselves in preference to an understanding 
gained by earnest self-examination. What is more, the legends have become 
so sacrosanct that the very habit of self-examination or self-criticism 
smells of low treason, and men who practice it are defeatists and 
unpatriotic scoundrels.   **h although we continue to pay our 
conversational devotions to "free private enterprise", "individual 
initiative", "the democratic way", "government of the people", 
"competition of the marketplace", etc&, we live rather comfortably 
in a society in which economic competition is diminishing in 
large areas, bureaucracy is corroding representative government, technology 
is weakening the citizen's confidence in his own power to make 
decisions, and the threat of war is driving him economically and physically 
into the ground".   The interesting thing about Mr& 
Lyford's approach, and the approach of the contributors to <The 
Agreeable Autocracies> (Oceana Publications, 1961) to the situation 
of American civilization, is that it is concerned with comprehending 
the psychological relationships which are having a decisive effect 
on American life. In an ideological argument, the participants tend 
to thump the table. They are determined to <prove> something. The 
new spirit, so well illustrated by Mr& Lyford's work, is wholly 
free of this anxiety. The problem is rather to find out what is actually 
happening, and this is especially difficult for the reason that "we 
are busily being defended from a knowledge of the present, sometimes 
by the very agencies- our educational system, our mass media, our 
statesmen- on which we have had to rely most heavily for understanding 
of ourselves". The Introduction continues: "  We experience 
a vague uneasiness about events, a suspicion that our political 
and economic institutions, like the genie in the bottle, have escaped 
confinement and that we have lost the power to recall them. We feel 
uncomfortable at being bossed by a corporation or a union or a television 
set, but until we have some knowledge about these phenomena and 
what they are doing to us, we can hardly learn to control them. It does 
not appear that we will be delivered from our situation by articles 
on The National Purpose.   <The Agreeable Autocracies> 
is an attempt to explore some of the institutions which both reflect 
and determine the character of the free society today. The men who 
speculate on these institutions have, for the most part, come to at least 
one common conclusion: that many of the great enterprises and associations 
around which our democracy is formed are in themselves autocratic 
in nature, and possessed of power which can be used to frustrate 
the citizen who is trying to assert his individuality in the modern 
world".   These institutions which Mr& Lyford names "agreeable 
autocracies"- where did they come from? Of one thing we 
can be sure: they were not sketched out by the revolutionary theorists 
of the eighteenth century who formulated the political principles 
and originally shaped the political institutions of what we term the "free 
society". No doubt there are historians who can explain to a 
great extent what happened to the plans and projects of the eighteenth 
century. Going back over this ground and analyzing the composition 
of forces which have created the present scene is one of the tasks undertaken 
by the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions, in 
Santa Barbara. But however we come, finally, to explain and account 
for the present, the truth we are trying to expose, right now, is that 
the makers of constitutions and the designers of institutions find 
it difficult if not impossible to anticipate the behavior of the host 
of all their enterprises. The host is the flowing life of the human race. 
This life has its own currents and rhythms, its own multiple cycles 
and adaptations. On occasion it produces extraordinary novelties. 
Should Rousseau have been able to leave room in his social theory 
for the advent of television, atomic energy, and ~IBM machines? 
How would Thomas Jefferson feel after reading <Factories in the 
Field?> They tell us, sir, that we are free, because we have in one 
hand a ballot, and in the other a stock certificate. With these we 
shape our destiny and own private property, and that, sir, makes ours 
the best of all possible societies. The reality of the situation, however, 
is described by Mr& Lyford: "  Many of us may even 
be secretly relieved at having a plausible excuse to delegate ancient 
civic responsibilities to a new bureaucracy of experts. Thus the member 
of an industrial union comes to regard his officers as business 
agents who may proceed without interference or recall; the stockholder 
delivers his proxy; and the citizen narrows his political participation 
to the mere act of voting- if he votes at all". 
Copernicus did not question it, Ptolemy could not. Given the conceptual 
context within which ancient thought thrived, how could anyone have 
questioned this principle? The reasons for this are partly observational, 
partly philosophical, and reinforced by other aesthetic and 
cultural factors.   First, the observational reasons. <The> obvious 
natural fact to ancient thinkers was the diurnal rotation of the 
heavens. Not only did constellations like Draco, Cepheus, and Cassiopeia 
spin circles around the pole, but stars which were not circumpolar 
rose and set at the same place on the horizon each night. Nor did 
a constellation's stars vary in brightness during the course of their 
nocturnal flights. The conclusion- the distances of the constellations 
did not vary and their paths were circular. Moreover, the sun's 
path over earth described a segment of a great circle; this was 
clear from the contour of the shadow traced by a gnomon before and after 
noon.   As early as the /6,th century B&C& the earth 
was seen to be spherical. Ships disappear hull-first over the horizon; 
approaching shore their masts appeared first. Earth, being at 
the center of the universe, would have the same shape as the latter; 
so, e&g& did Aristotle argue, although this may not be an <observational> 
reason in favor of circularity. The discoid shapes of 
sun and moon were also felt to indicate the shape of celestial things.

In light of all this, one would require <special> reasons for 
saying that the paths of the heavenly bodies were other than circular. 
Why, for example, should the ancients have supposed the diurnal rotation 
of the heavens to be elliptical? Or oviform? Or angular? 
There were no reasons for such suppositions then. This, conjoined 
with the considerations above, made the circular motions of heavenly 
bodies appear an almost directly observed fact.   Additional philosophical 
considerations, advanced notably by Aristotle, supported further 
the circularity principle. By distinguishing superlunary (celestial) 
and sublunary (terrestrial) existence, and reinforcing this with 
the four-element physics of Empedocles, Aristotle came to speak of 
the stars as perfect bodies, which moved in only a perfect way, viz& 
in a perfect circle.   Now what is perfect motion? It must, 
apparently, be motion without termini. Because motion which begins and 
ends at discrete places would (e&g& for Aristotle) be incomplete. 
Circular motion, however, since it is eternal and perfectly continuous, 
lacks termini. It is never motion towards something. Only imcomplete, 
imperfect things move towards what they lack. Perfect, complete 
entities, if they move at all, do not move towards what they lack. 
They move only in accordance with what is in their natures. Thus, circular 
motion is itself one of the essential characteristics of completely 
perfect celestial existence.   To return now to the four-element 
physics, a mixture of muddy, frothy water will, when standing in 
a jar, separate out with earth at the bottom, water on top, and the 
air on top of that. A candle alight in the air directs its flame and 
smoke upwards. This gives a clue to the cosmical order of elements. 
Thus earth has fallen to the center of the universe. It is covered (partly) 
with water, air is atop of that. Pure fire (the stars) is in 
the heavens. When combined with the metaphysical notion that pure forms 
of this universe are best appreciated when least embodied in a material 
substratum, it becomes clear that while earth will be dross on a 
scale of material-formal ratios, celestial bodies will be of a subtle, 
quickened, ethereal existence, in whose embodiment pure form will be 
the dominant component and matter will be absent or remain subsidiary.

The stars constitute an order of existence different from what 
we encounter on earth. This is clear when one distinguishes the types 
of motion appropriate to both regions. A projectile shot up from earth 
returns rectlinearly to its 'natural' place of rest. But the 
natural condition for the heavenly bodies is neither rest, nor rectilinear 
motion. Being less encumbered by material embodiments they partake 
more of what is divine. Their motion will be eternal and perfect.

Let us re-examine the publicized contrasts between Ptolemaic 
and Copernican astronomy. Bluntly, there never was a Ptolemaic <system> 
of astronomy. Copernicus' achievement was to have <invented> 
systematic astronomy. The <Almagest> and the <Hypotheses> outline 
Ptolemy's conception of his own task as the provision of computational 
tables, independent calculating devices for the prediction 
of future planetary perturbations. Indeed, in the Halma edition of Theon's 
presentation of the <Hypotheses> there is a chart setting 
out (under six distinct headings) otherwise unrelated diagrams for describing 
the planetary motions. No attempt is made by Ptolemy to weld 
into a single scheme (<a la> Aristotle), these independent predicting-machines. 
They all have this in common: the earth is situated 
near the center of the deferent. But that one should superimpose all 
these charts, run a pin through the common point, and then scale each 
planetary deferent larger and smaller (to keep the epicycles from 'bumping'), 
this is contrary to any intention Ptolemy ever expresses. 
He might even suppose the planets to move at infinity. Ptolemy's 
problem is to forecast where, against the inverted bowl of night, some 
particular light will be found at future times. His problem concerns 
longitudes, latitudes, and angular velocities. The distances of these 
points of light is a problem he cannot master, beyond crude conjectures 
as to the orderings of the planetary orbits viewed outward from earth. 
But none of this has prevented scientists, philosophers, and even 
historians of science, from speaking of the Ptolemaic <system,> in 
contrast to the Copernican. This is a mistake. It is engendered by 
confounding the Aristotelian cosmology in the <Almagest> with the 
geocentric astronomy.   Ptolemy recurrently denies that he could 
ever <explain> planetary motion. This is what necessitates the nonsystematic 
character of his astronomy. So when textbooks, like that 
of Baker set out drawings of the 'Ptolemaic System', complete 
with earth in the center and the seven heavenly bodies epicyclically arranged 
on their several deferents, we have nothing but a misleading /20,th-century 
idea of what never existed historically.   It is 
the chief merit in Copernicus' work that all his planetary calculations 
are <interdependent>. He cannot, e&g& compute the retrograde 
arc traveled by Mars, without also making suppositions about the 
earth's own motion. He cannot describe eclipses without entertaining 
some form of 
a three-body problem. In Ptolemaic terms, however, eclipses 
and retrograde motion were <phenomena simpliciter,> to be explained 
directly as possible resultants of epicyclical combinations. In a 
<systematic> astronomy, like that of Copernicus, retrogradations become 
part of the conceptual structure of the system; they are no longer 
a puzzling aspect of intricately variable, local planetary motions.

Another contrast stressed when discussing Ptolemaic vs& 
Copernican astronomy, turns on the idea of <simplicity>. It is often 
stated that Copernican astronomy is 'simpler' than Ptolemaic. 
Some even say that this is the reason for the ultimate acceptance of 
the former. Thus, Margenau remarks: "A large number of unrelated 
epicycles was needed to explain the observations, but otherwise the 
[Ptolemaic] system served well and with quantitative precision. Copernicus, 
by placing the sun at the center of the planetary universe, 
was able to reduce the number of epicycles from eighty-three to seventeen. 
Historical records indicate that Copernicus was unaware of the 
fundamental aspects of his so-called 'revolution', unaware perhaps 
of its historical importance, he rested content with having produced 
a <simpler> scheme for prediction. As an illustration of the principle 
of simplicity the heliocentric discovery has a peculiar appeal because 
it allows simplicity to be arithmetized; it involves a reduction 
in the number of epicycles from eighty-three to seventeen".

Without careful qualification this can be misleading. If in any one 
calculation Ptolemy had had to invoke 83 epicycles <all at once,> 
while Copernicus never required more than one third this number, then 
(in the sense obvious to Margenau) Ptolemaic astronomy would be simpler 
than Copernican. But no single planetary problem ever required 
of Ptolemy more than six epicycles at one time. This, of course, results 
from the non-systematic, 'cellular' character of Ptolemaic 
theory. Calculations within the Copernican framework always raised questions 
about planetary configurations. These could be met only by considering 
the dynamical elements of several planets at one time. This 
is more ambitious than Ptolemy is ever required to be when he faces 
his isolated problems. Thus, in no ordinary sense of 'simplicity' 
is the Ptolemaic theory simpler than the Copernican. The latter required 
juggling several elements simultaneously. This was not simpler 
but much more difficult than exercises within Ptolemy's astronomy.

Analogously, anyone who argues that Einstein's theory of 
gravitation is simpler than Newton's, must say rather more to explain 
how it is that the latter is mastered by student-physicists, while 
the former can be managed (with difficulty) only by accomplished experts.

In a sense, Einstein's theory <is> simpler than Newton's, 
and there is a corresponding sense in which Copernicus' theory 
is simpler than Ptolemy's. But 'simplicity' here refers to 
<systematic simplicity>. The number of primitive ideas in systematically-simple 
theories is reduced to a minimum. The axioms required to 
make the theoretical machinery operate are set out tersely and powerfully, 
so that all permissible operations within the theory can be traced 
rigorously back to these axioms, rules, and primitive notions. This 
characterizes Euclid's formulation of geometry, but not Ptolemy's 
astronomy. There are in the <Almagest> no rules for determining 
<in advance> whether a new epicycle will be required for dealing with 
abberations in lunar, solar, or planetary behavior. The strongest 
appeal of the Copernican formulation consisted in just this: ideally, 
the justification for dealing with special problems in particular 
ways is completely set out in the basic 'rules' of the theory. The 
lower-level hypotheses are never 'ad hoc', never introduced <ex 
post facto> just to sweep up within the theory some recalcitrant datum. 
Copernicus, to an extent unachieved by Ptolemy, approximated to 
Euclid's vision. <De Revolutionibus> is not just a collection of 
facts and techniques. It is an organized system of these things. Solving 
astronomical problems requires, for Copernicus, not a random search 
of unrelated tables, but a regular employment of the rules defining 
the entire discipline.   Hence, noting the simplicity achieved 
in Copernicus' formulation does not provide <another> reason for 
the acceptance of <De Revolutionibus,> another reason beyond its 
systematic superiority. It provides exactly <the same> reason.

1543 A&D& is often venerated as the birthday of the scientific 
revolution. It is really the funeral day of scholastic science. Granted, 
the cosmological, philosophical, and cultural reverberations 
initiated by the <De Revolutionibus> were felt with increasing violence 
during the 300 years to follow. But, considered within technical 
astronomy, a different pattern can be traced.   In what does the 
dissatisfaction of Copernicus-the-astronomer consist? What in the 
<Almagest> draws his fire? Geocentricism <per se?> No. The 
formal displacement of the geocentric principle far from being Copernicus' 
<primary> concern, was introduced only to resolve what seemed 
to him intolerable in orthodox astronomy, namely, the 'unphysical' 
triplication of centric reference-points: one center from which 
the planet's distances were calculated, another around which planetary 
velocities were computed, and still a third center (the earth) from 
which the observations originated. This arrangement was for Copernicus 
literally monstrous: "With [the Ptolemaists] it is as though 
an artist were to gather the hands, feet, head and other members 
for his images from divers models, each part excellently drawn, but not 
related to a single body; and since they in no way match each other, 
the result would be a monster rather than a man".   Copernicus 
required a systematically integrated, physically intelligible astronomy. 
His objective was, essentially, to repair those aspects of orthodox 
astronomy responsible for its deficiencies in achieving these ends. 
That such deficiencies existed within Ptolemy's theory was not 
discovered <de novo> by Copernicus. The critical, rigorous examinations 
of Nicholas of Cusa and Nicholas of Oresme provided the context 
(a late medieval context) for Nicholas Copernicus' own work. 
The latter looked backward upon inherited deficiencies. Without abandoning 
too much, Copernicus sought to make orthodox astronomy systematically 
and mechanically acceptable. He did not think himself to be 
firing the first shot of an intellectual revolution. 
Henrietta's feeling of identity with Sara Sullam was crowned by her 
discovery of the coincidence that Sara's epitaph in the Jewish 
cemetery in Venice referred to her as "the Sulamite".   Into 
the texture of this tapestry of history and human drama Henrietta, 
as every artist delights to do, wove strands of her own intuitive insights 
into human nature and- 
especially in the remarkable story of the 
attraction and conflict between two so disparate and fervent characters 
as this pair- into the relations of men and women: "In their 
relations, she was the giver and he the receiver, nay the demander. His 
feeling always exacted sacrifices from her. **h One is so accustomed 
to think of men as the privileged who need but ask and receive, and 
women as submissive and yielding, that our sympathies are usually enlisted 
on the side of the man whose love is not returned, and we condemn 
the woman as a coquette **h. The very firmness of her convictions and 
logical clearness of her arguments captivated and stimulated him to 
make greater efforts; usually, this is most exasperating to men, who 
expect every woman to verify their preconceived notions concerning her 
sex, and when she does not, immediately condemn her as eccentric and 
unwomanly **h. She had the opportunity that few clever women can resist, 
of showing her superiority in argument over a man **h. Women themselves 
have come to look upon matters in the same light as the outside 
world, and scarcely find any wrong in submitting to the importunities 
of a stronger will, even when their affections are withheld **h. 
She was exposing herself to temptation which it is best to avoid where 
it can consistently be done. One who invites such trials of character 
is either foolhardy, overconfident or too simple and childlike in faith 
in mankind to see the danger. In any case but the last, such a course 
is sure to avenge itself upon the individual; the moral powers 
no more than the physical and mental, can bear overstraining. And, in 
the last case, a bitter disappointment but too often meets the confiding 
nature **h".   Henrietta was discovering in the process of 
writing, as the born writer does, not merely a channel for the discharge 
of accumulated information but a stimulus to the development of the 
creative powers of observation, insight and intuition.   Dr& 
Isaacs was so pleased with the quality of her biographical study of 
Sara Sullam that he considered submitting it to the <Century> Magazine 
or <Harper's> but he decided that its Jewish subject probably 
would not interest them and published it in <The Messenger,> 
"so our readers will be benefited instead". Under her father's 
influence it did not occur to Henrietta that she might write on subjects 
outside the Jewish field, but she did begin writing for other Anglo-Jewish 
papers and thus increased her output and her audience. And 
she wrote the libretto for an oratorio on the subject of Judas Maccabeus 
performed at the <Hanukkah> festival which came in December. 
By her eighteenth birthday her bent for writing was so evident that 
Papa and Mamma gave her a <Life of Dickens> as a spur to her aspiration.

Another source of intellectual stimulus was opened 
to her at that time by the founding of Johns Hopkins University within 
walking distance of home. It was established in a couple of buildings 
in the shopping district, with only a few professors, but all eminent 
men, and a few hundred eager students housed in nearby dwellings. 
In September '76 Thomas Huxley, Darwin's famous disciple, came 
from England to speak in a crowded auditorium at the formal opening 
of the University; and although it was a school for men only, it 
afforded Henrietta an opportunity to attend its public lectures.

In the following year her father undertook to give a course in Hebrew 
theology to Johns Hopkins students, and this brought to the Szold 
house a group of bright young Jews who had come to Baltimore to 
study, and who enjoyed being fed and mothered by Mamma and entertained 
by Henrietta and Rachel, who played and sang for them in the upstairs 
sitting room on Sunday evenings. From Philadelphia came Cyrus 
Adler and Joseph 
Jastrow. Adler, Judge Sulzberger's nephew, came to study Assyriology. 
A smart, shrewd and ambitious young man, well connected, and with 
a knack for getting in the good graces of important people, he was 
bound to go far. Joseph Jastrow, the younger son of the distinguished 
rabbi, Marcus Jastrow, was a friendly, round-faced fellow with a 
little mustache, whose field was psychology, and who was also a punster 
and a jolly tease. His father was a good friend of Rabbi Szold, and 
Joe lived with the Szolds for a while. Both these youths, who greatly 
admired Henrietta, were somewhat younger than she, as were also 
the neighboring Friedenwald 
boys, who were then studying medicine; 
and bright though they all were, they could not possibly compete for 
her interest with Papa, whose mind- although he never tried to dazzle 
or patronize lesser lights with it- naturally eclipsed theirs and 
made them seem to her even younger than they were. Besides, Miss Henrietta- 
as she was generally known since she had put up her hair 
with a chignon in the back- had little time to spare them from her 
teaching and writing; so Cyrus Adler became interested in her friend 
Racie Friedenwald, and Joe Jastrow- the only young man who when 
he wrote had the temerity to address her as Henrietta, and signed 
himself Joe- fell in love with pretty sister Rachel.   Henrietta, 
however, was at that time engaged in a lengthy correspondence with 
Joe's older and more serious brother, Morris, who was just about 
her own age and whom she had got to know well during trips to Philadelphia 
with Papa, when he substituted for Rabbi Jastrow at Rodeph 
Shalom Temple there during its Rabbi's absence in Europe. Young 
Morris, who, while attending the University of Pennsylvania, also 
taught and edited a paper, found time to write Henrietta twenty-page 
letters on everything that engaged his interest, from the acting of Sarah 
Bernhardt in Philadelphia to his reactions to the comments of 
"Sulamith" on the Jewish reform movement being promulgated by the 
Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati. Unlike his younger brother, 
Joe, he never presumed to address her more familiarly than as "My 
dear friend", although he praised and envied the elegance and purity 
of her style. And when he complained of the lack of time for all 
he wanted to do, Henrietta advised him to rise at five in the morning 
as she and Papa did.   One thing Papa had not taught Henrietta 
was how to handle a young man as high-spirited and opinionated as 
herself. She could not resist the opportunity "of showing her superiority 
in argument over a man" which she had remarked as one of the 
"feminine follies" of Sara Sullam; and in her forthright way, 
Henrietta, who in her story of Sara had indicated her own unwillingness 
"to think of men as the privileged" and "women as submissive 
and yielding", felt obliged to defend vigorously any statement of hers 
to which Morris Jastrow took the slightest exception- he objected 
to her stand on the Corbin affair, as well as on the radical reforms 
of Dr& Wise of Hebrew Union College- until once, in sheer 
desperation, he wrote that he had given up hope they would ever agree 
on anything. But that did not prevent him from writing more long letters, 
or from coming to spend his Christmas vacations with the hospitable, 
lively Szolds in their pleasant house on Lombard Street. 

#1880S: 
"LITTLE WOMEN"#

"WE'VE GOT Father and Mother 
and each other **h" said Beth on the first page of Louisa Alcott's 
<Little Women;> and, "I do think that families are the 
most beautiful things in all the world", burst out Jo some five hundred 
pages later in that popular story of the March family, which had 
first appeared when Henrietta was eight; and the Szold family, as 
it developed, bore a striking resemblance to the Marches.   Mr& 
March, like Benjamin Szold, was a clergyman, although of an indeterminate 
denomination; and "Marmee" March, like Sophie Szold, 
was the competent manager of her brood of girls, of whom the Marches 
had only four to the Szolds' five. But the March girls had their 
counterparts in the Szold girls. Henrietta could easily identify 
herself with Jo March, although Jo was not the eldest sister. Neither 
was Henrietta hoydenish like Jo, who frankly wished she were a 
boy and had deliberately shortened her name, which, like Henrietta's, 
was the feminine form of a boy's name. But both were high-spirited 
and vivacious, both had tempers to control, both loved languages, 
especially English and German, both were good teachers and wrote for 
publication. Each was her mother's assistant and confidante; and 
each stood out conspicuously in the family picture.   Bertha Szold 
was more like Meg, the eldest March girl, who "learned that a 
woman's happiest kingdom is home, her highest honor the art of ruling 
it, not as a queen, but a wise wife and mother". Bertha, blue-eyed 
like Mamma, was from the start her mother's daughter, destined for 
her mother's role in life. Sadie, like Beth March, suffered ill 
health- got rheumatic fever and had to be careful of her heart- 
but that never dampened her spirits. When her right hand was incapacitated 
by the rheumatism, Sadie learned to write with her left hand. She 
wrote gay plays about the girls for family entertainments, like "Oh, 
What Fun! A comedy in Three Acts", in which, under "Personages", 
Henrietta appeared as "A Schoolmarm", and Bertha, 
who was only a trifle less brilliant in high school than Henrietta 
had been, appeared as "<Dummkopf>". Sadie studied piano; played 
Chopin in the "Soiree Musicale of Mr& Guthrie's Pupils"; 
and she recited "Hector's Farewell to Andromache" most 
movingly, to the special delight of Rabbi Jastrow at his home in Germantown 
near Philadelphia, where the Szold girls took turns visiting 
between the visits of the Jastrow boys at the Szolds' in Baltimore. 
Adele, like Amy, the youngest of the Marches, was the rebellious, 
mischievous, rather calculating and ambitious one. For Rachel, 
conceded to be the prettiest of the Szold girls- and she did make 
a pretty picture sitting in the grape-arbor strumming her guitar and singing 
in her silvery tones- there was no particular March counterpart; 
but both groups were so closely knit that despite individual differences 
the family life in both cases was remarkably similar in atmosphere 
if not entirely in content- the one being definitely Jewish 
and the other vaguely Christian.   The Szolds, like the Marches, 
enjoyed and loved living together, even in troubled times; and, 
as in the March home, any young man who called on the Szolds found 
himself confronted with a phalanx of femininity which made it rather difficult 
to direct his particular attention to any one of them. This 
included Mamma, jolly, generous, and pretty, with whom they all fell 
in love, just as Papa had first fallen in love with <her> Mamma before 
he chose her; and when a young man like Morris Jastrow had enjoyed 
the Szold hospitality, he felt obliged to send his respects and 
his gifts not merely to Henrietta, in whom he was really interested, 
but to all the Szold girls and Mamma. And just as "Laurie" Lawrence 
was first attracted to bright Jo March, who found him immature 
by her high standards, and then had to content himself with her younger 
sister Amy, so Joe Jastrow, who had also been writing Henrietta 
before he came to Johns Hopkins, had to content himself with her 
younger sister, pretty Rachel. And like Jo March, who saw her sisters 
Meg and Amy involved in "lovering" before herself, Henrietta 
saw her sisters Rachel and Sadie drawn outside their family circle 
by the attraction of suitors, Rachel by Joe Jastrow, and Sadie by 
Max Lo^bl, a young businessman who would write her romantic descriptions 
of his trips by steamboat down the Mississippi.

This time he was making no mistake. Olgivanna- in her country 
the 
nickname was a respectful form of address- was not only attractive but 
shrewd, durable, sensible, and smart. No wonder Wright was enchanted- 
no two better suited people ever met. Almost from that day, until 
his death, Olgivanna was to stay at his side; but the years that 
immediately followed were to be extraordinarily trying, both for Wright 
and his Montenegrin lady.   It must be granted that the flouting 
of convention, no matter how well intentioned one may be, is sure 
to lead to trouble, or at least to the discomfort that goes with social 
disapproval. Even so, many of the things that happened to Wright 
and Olgivanna seem inordinately severe. Their afflictions centered 
on one maddening difficulty: Miriam held up the divorce proceedings 
that she herself had asked for. Reporters began to trail Miriam everywhere, 
and to encourage her to make appalling statements about Wright 
and his doings. Flocks of writs, attachments, and unpleasant legal 
papers of every sort began to fly through the air. The distracted Miriam 
would agree to a settlement through her legal representative, then 
change her mind and make another attack on Wright as a person. At 
last her lawyer, Arthur D& Cloud, gave up the case because she 
turned down three successive settlements he arranged. Cloud made an interesting 
statement in parting from his client: "I wanted to be 
a lawyer, and Mrs& Wright wanted me to be an avenging angel. So I 
got out. Mrs& Wright is without funds. The first thing to do is 
get her some money by a temporary but definite adjustment pending a final 
disposition of the case. But every time I suggested this to her, 
Mrs& Wright turned it down and demanded that I go out and punish 
Mr& Wright. I am an attorney, not an instrument of vengeance". 
Miriam Noel disregarded the free advice of her departing counselor, 
and appointed a heavy-faced young man named Harold Jackson to take 
his place.   There were three years of this strange warfare; 
and during the unhappy time, Miriam often would charge that Wright and 
Olgivanna were misdemeanants against the public order of Wisconsin. 
Yet somehow, when officers were prodded into visiting Taliesin to 
execute the warrants, they would find neither Wright nor Olgivanna 
at home. This showed that common sense had not died out at the county 
and village level- though why the unhappy and obviously unbalanced 
woman was not restrained remains a puzzle. The misery of Miriam's 
bitterness can be felt today by anyone who studies the case- it was 
hopeless, agonizing, and destructive, with Miriam herself bearing the 
heaviest burden of shame and pain.   To get an idea of the embarrassment 
and chagrin that was heaped upon Wright and Olgivanna, we 
should bear in mind that the raids were sometimes led by Miriam in person. 
One of the most distressing of these scenes occurred at Spring 
Green toward the end of the open warfare, on a beautiful day in June. 
At this time Miriam Noel appeared, urging on Constable Henry Pengally, 
whose name showed him to be a descendant of the Welsh settlers 
in the neighborhood. A troop of reporters brought up the rear. Miriam 
was stopped at the Taliesin gate, and William Weston, now the 
estate foreman, came out to parley. He said that Mr& Wright was 
not in, and so could not be arrested on something called a peace warrant 
that Miriam was waving in the air. Miriam now ordered Pengally to 
break down the gate, but he said he really couldn't go that far. At 
this point Mrs& Frances Cupply, one of Wright's handsome daughters 
by his first wife, came from the house and tried to calm Miriam 
as she tore down a NO VISITORS sign and smashed the glass pane 
on another sign with a rock.   Miriam Noel Wright said, "Here 
I am at my own home, locked out so I must stand in the road"! 
Then she rounded on Weston and cried, "You always did Wright's 
dirty work! When I take over Taliesin, the first thing I'll 
do is fire you".   "Madame Noel, I think you had better 
go", said Mrs& Cupply.   "And I think <you> had better 
leave", replied Miriam. Turning to the reporters, she asked, "Did 
you hear her? 'I think you had better leave'! And this 
is my own home". In the silence that followed, Miriam walked close 
to Mrs& Cupply, who drew back a step on her side of the gate. Then, 
with staring eyes and lips drawn thin, Miriam said to the young woman, 
"You are ugly- uglier than you used to be, and you were always 
very ugly. You are even uglier than Mr& Wright".   The 
animosity expressed by such a scene had the penetrating quality of a 
natural force; and it gave Miriam Noel a fund of energy like that 
of a person inspired to complete some great and universal work of art. 
As if to make certain that Wright would be unable to pay any settlement 
at all, Miriam wrote to prospective clients denouncing him; she 
also went to Washington and appealed to Senator George William 
Norris of Nebraska, the Fighting Liberal, from whose office a sympathetic 
but cautious harrumphing was heard. Then, after overtures to 
accept a settlement and go through with a divorce, Miriam gave a ghastly 
echo of Mrs& Micawber by suddenly stating, "I will never leave 
Mr& Wright".   Under this kind of pressure, it is not 
surprising that Wright would make sweeping statements to the newspapers. 
Miriam had not yet goaded him into mentioning her directly, but one 
can feel the generalized anger in Wright's remarks to reporters 
when he was asked, one morning on arrival in Chicago, what he thought 
of the city as a whole. First, Wright said, he was choked by the smoke, 
which fortunately kept him from seeing the dreadful town. But surely 
Michigan Avenue was handsome? "That isn't a boulevard, it's 
a racetrack"! cried Wright, showing that automobiles were considered 
to be a danger as early as the 1920's. "This is a horrible 
way to live", Wright went on. "You are being strangled by traffic". 
He was then asked for a solution of the difficulty, and began 
to talk trenchant sense, though private anguish showed through in the 
vehemence of his manner. "Take a gigantic knife and sweep it over 
the Loop", Wright said. "Cut off every building at the seventh 
floor. Spread everything out. You don't need concentration. If 
you cut down these horrible buildings you'll have no more traffic jams. 
You'll have trees again. You'll have some joy in the life of 
this city. After all, that's the job of the architect- to give 
the world a little joy".

Little enough joy was afforded Wright 
in the spring of 1925, when another destructive fire broke out at Taliesin. 
The first news stories had it that this blaze was started by 
a bolt of lightning, as though Miriam could call down fire from heaven 
like a prophet of the Old Testament. A storm did take place that 
night, and fortunately enough, it included a cloudburst that helped put 
out the flames. Later accounts blamed defective wiring for starting 
the fire; at any rate, heat grew so intense in the main part of the 
house that it melted the window panes, and fused the K'ang-si pottery 
to cinders. Wright set his loss at $200,000, a figure perhaps justified 
by the unique character of the house that had been ruined, and 
the faultless taste that had gone into the selection of the prints and 
other things that were destroyed. In spite of the disaster, Wright 
completed during this period plans for the Lake Tahoe resort, in which 
he suggested the shapes of American Indian tepees- a project of 
great and appropriate charm, that came to nothing. Amid a shortage of 
profitable work, the memory of Albert Johnson's $20,000 stood out 
in lonely grandeur- the money had quickly melted away. A series of 
conferences with friends and bankers began about this time; and the 
question before these meetings was, here is a man of international reputation 
and proved earning power; how can he be financed so that he 
can find the work he ought to do? While this was under consideration, 
dauntless as ever Wright set about the building of Taliesin /3,.

As he made plans for the new Taliesin, Wright also got on 
paper his conception of a cathedral of steel and glass to house a congregation 
of all faiths, and the idea for a planetarium with a sloping 
ramp. Years were to pass before these plans came off the paper, and 
Wright was justified in thinking, as the projects failed, that much 
of what he had to show his country and the world would never be seen except 
by visitors to Taliesin. And now there was some question as to 
his continued residence there. Billy Koch, who had once worked for 
Wright as a chauffeur, gave a deposition for Miriam's use that he 
had seen Olgivanna living at Taliesin. This might put Wright in such 
a bad light before a court that Miriam would be awarded Taliesin; 
nor was she moved by a letter from Wright pointing out that if he 
was not "compelled to spend money on useless lawyer's bills, useless 
hotel bills, and useless doctor's bills", he could more quickly 
provide Miriam with a suitable home either in Los Angeles or Paris, 
as she preferred. Miriam sniffed at this, and complained that Wright 
had said unkind things about her to reporters. His reply was, "Everything 
that has been printed derogatory to you, purporting to have 
come from me, was a betrayal, and nothing yet has been printed which 
I have sanctioned". What irritated Miriam was that Wright had told 
the papers about a reasonable offer he had made, which he considered 
she would accept "when she tires of publicity". From her California 
headquarters, Miriam fired back, "I shall never divorce Mr& 
Wright, to permit him to marry Olga Milanoff".   Then Miriam 
varied the senseless psychological warfare by suddenly withdrawing 
a suit for separate maintenance that had been pending, and asking 
for divorce on the grounds of cruelty, with the understanding that Wright 
would not contest it. The Bank of Wisconsin sent a representative 
to the judge's chambers in Madison to give information on Wright's 
ability to meet the terms. He said that the architect might reasonably 
be expected to carry his financial burdens if all harrassment 
could be brought to an end, and that the bank would accept a mortgage 
on Taliesin to help bring this about. Miriam said that she must be 
assured that "that other woman, Olga, will not be in luxury while I 
am scraping along". This exhausted Wright's patience, and in consequence 
he talked freely to reporters in a Madison hotel suite. "Volstead 
laws, speed laws, divorce laws", he said, "as they now 
stand, demoralize the individual, make liars and law breakers of us in 
one way or another, and tend to make our experiment in democracy absurd. 
If Mrs& Wright doesn't accept the terms in the morning, I'll 
go either to Tokyo or to Holland, to do what I can. I realize, 
in taking this stand, just what it means to me and mine". Here Wright 
gave a slight sigh of weariness, and continued, "It means more 
long years lived across the social grain of the life of our people, 
making shift to live in the face of popular disrespect and misunderstanding 
as I best can for myself and those dependent upon me". Next 
day, word came that Miriam was not going through with the divorce; 
but Wright stayed in the United States. His mentioning of Japan and 
Holland had been merely the expression of wishful thinking. No matter 
what troubles might betide him, this most American of artists knew 
in his heart he could not function properly outside his native land.

In a few weeks Miriam made another sortie at Taliesin, but 
was repulsed at the locked and guarded gates. 
More likely, you simply told yourself, as you handed us the book, that 
it mattered little what we incanted providing we underwent the discipline 
of incantation.   For pride's sake, I will not say that 
the coy and leering vade mecum of those verses insinuated itself into 
my soul. Besides, that particular message does no more than weakly echo 
the roar in all fresh blood. But what you could not know, of course, 
was how smoothly the Victorian Fitzgerald was to lead into an American 
Fitzgerald of my own vintage under whose banner we adolescents 
were to come, if not of age, then into a bright, taut semblance of it. 
I do not suppose you ever heard of F& Scott Fitzgerald, living 
or dead, and moreover I do not suppose that, even if you had, his legend 
would have seemed to you to warrant more than a cluck of disapproval. 
Neither his appetites, his exacerbations, nor his despair were 
kin to yours. He might have been the man in the moon for all you could 
have understood him. But he was no man in the moon to me. Although 
his tender nights were not the ones I dreamed of, nor was it for yachts, 
sports cars, tall drinks, and swimming pools, nor yet for money or 
what money buys that I burned, I too was burning and watching myself 
burn. The flame was simply of a different kind. It was symbolized 
(at least for those of us who recognized ourselves in the image) by that 
self-consuming, elegiac candle of Edna St& Vincent Millay's, 
that candle which from the quatrain where she ensconced it became a 
beacon to us, but which in point of fact would have had to be as tall 
as a funeral taper to last even the evening, let alone the night. One 
should not, of course, pluck the head off a flower and expect its perfume 
to linger on. Yet this passion for passion, now that I look back 
on it with passion spent, seems somewhat overblown and operatic, though 
as a diva Miss Millay perfectly controlled her notes. Only what 
else was she singing but the old Song of Songs, that most ancient 
of tunes that nature plays with such unfailing response upon young nerves? 
Perhaps this is not so little. Perhaps the mere fact that by 
plucking on the nerves nature can awaken in the most ordinary of us, temporarily 
anyway, the sleeping poet, and in poets can discover their 
immortality, is the most remarkable of all the remarkable phenomena to 
which we can attest? One can see it as humiliating that an extra hormone 
casually fed into our chemistry may induce us to lay down our lives 
for a lover or a friend; one can take it as no more than another 
veil torn from the mystery of the soul. But it could also be looked 
at from the other end of the spectrum. One could see this chemical determinant 
as in itself a miracle. In any case, Miss Millay's sweet-throated 
bitterness, her variations on the theme that the world was 
not only well lost for love but even well lost for lost love, her constant 
and wonderfully tragic posture, so unlike that of Fitzgerald since 
it required no scenery or props, drew from the me that I was when 
I fell upon her verses an overwhelming yea.   But all this, I 
am well aware, is the <bel canto> of love, and although I have always 
liked to think that it was to the <bel canto> and to that alone 
that I listened, I know well enough that it was not. If I am to speak 
the whole truth about my knowledge of love, I will have to stop 
trying to emulate the transcendant nightingale. There is another side 
of love, more nearly symbolized by the croak of the mating capercailzie, 
or better still perhaps by the mute antics of the slug.   Whether 
you experienced the passion of desire I have, of course, no way 
of knowing, nor indeed have I wished with even the most fleeting fragment 
of a wish to know, for the fact that one constitutes by one's 
mere existence so to speak the proof of some sort of passion makes any 
speculation upon this part of one's parents' experience more immodest, 
more scandalizing, more deeply unwelcome than an obscenity from 
a stranger. I recoil from the very thought. At the same time, I am 
aware that my recoil could be interpreted by readers of the tea leaves 
at the bottom of my psyche as an incestuous sign, since theirs is a science 
of paradox: if one hates, they say it is because one loves; 
if one bullies, they say it is because one is afraid; if one shuns, 
they say it is because one desires; and according to them, whatever 
one fancies one feels, what one feels in fact is the opposite. Well, 
normally abnormal or normally normal, neurotic or merely fastidious (do 
the tea-leaf readers, by the way, allow psyches to have moral taste?), 
I have never wanted to know what you knew of passion. ##

YOU 
PROBABLY WOULD NOT REMEMBER, SINCE YOU NEVER seemed to remember 
even 
the same moments as I, much less their intensity, one sunny midday on 
Fifth Avenue when you had set out with me for some final shopping 
less than a week before the wedding you staged for me with such reluctance 
at the Farm. I can see us now. We had been walking quite briskly, 
for despite your being so small and me so tall, your stride in those 
days could easily match mine. We had stopped before a shop window 
to assess its autumnal display, when you suddenly turned to me, looking 
up from beneath one of your wrong hats, and with your nervous "ahem"! 
said: "There are things I must tell you about this man you 
are marrying which he does not know himself". If you had screamed 
right there in the street where we stood, I could not have felt more 
fear. With scarcely a mumble of excuse, I fled. I fled, however, 
not from what might have been the natural fear of being unable to disguise 
from you that the things about my bridegroom- in the sense you 
meant the word "things"- which you had been galvanizing yourself 
to tell me as a painful part of your maternal duty were things which 
I had already insisted upon finding out for myself (despite, I may now 
say, the unspeakable awkwardness of making the discovery on principle, 
yes, on principle, and in cold blood) because I was resolved, as 
a modern woman, not to be a mollycoddle waiting for Life but to seize 
Life by the throat. I had developed too foolproof a facade to be afraid 
of self-betrayal. What I fled from was my fear of what, unwittingly, 
you might betray, without meaning to, about my father and yourself.

But I can see from this latest trick of memory how much 
more arbitrary and influential it is than the will. While my memory 
holds with relentless tenacity, as I cannot too often stress, to my wrongs, 
when it comes to my shames, it gestures and jokes and toys with 
chronology like a prestidigitator in the hope of distracting me from 
them. Just as I was about to enlarge upon my discovery of the underside 
of the leaf of love, memory, displeased at being asked to yield its 
unsavory secrets, dashed ahead of me, calling back over its shoulder: 
"Skip it. Cut it out". But I will not skip it or cut it 
out. 
It is not my intention in this narrative to picture myself as a helpless 
victim moored to the rock of experience and left to the buffetings 
of chance. If to be innocent is to be helpless, then I had been- 
as are we all- helpless at the start. But the time came when I was 
no longer innocent and therefore no longer helpless. Helpless in that 
sense I can never be again. However, I confess my hope that I 
will be innocent again, not with a pristine, accidental innocence, but 
rather with an innocence achieved by the slow cutting away of the flesh 
to reach the bone.   For innocence, of all the graces of the 
spirit, is I believe the one most to be prayed for. Although it is constantly 
made to look foolish (too simple to come in out of the rain, 
people say, who have found in the innocent an impediment), it does not 
mind looking foolish because it is not concerned with how it looks. 
It assumes that things are as they seem when they seem best, and when 
they seem worst it overlooks them. To innocence, a word given is a word 
that will be kept. Instinctively, innocence does unto others as it 
expects to be done by. But when these expectations are once too often 
ground into the dust, innocence can falter, since its strength is according 
to the strength of him who possesses it. The innocence of which 
I speak is, I know, not incorruptible. But I insist upon believing 
that even when it is lost, it may, like paradise, be regained.

However, it was not of innocence in general that I was speaking, 
but of perhaps the frailest and surely the least important side of 
it which is innocence in romantic love. Here, if anywhere, it is not 
wholly incontrovertible. To you, for instance, the word innocence, in 
this connotation, probably retained its Biblical, or should I say 
technical sense, and therefore I suppose I must make myself quite clear 
by saying that I lost- or rather handed over- what you would 
have considered to be my innocence two weeks before I was legally entitled, 
and in fact by oath required, to hand it over along with what other 
goods and bads I had. But to me innocence is far less tangible. 
I had long since begun to lose my general innocence when I lost my 
trust in you, but this special innocence I lost before ever I loved, 
through my discovery that one could tremble with desire and even experience 
a flaming delight that had nothing, nothing whatever to do with 
friendship or liking, let alone with love. I knew this knowledge to 
be corrupting at the time I acquired it; today, these many years later, 
after all the temptations resisted or yielded to, the weasel satisfactions 
and the engulfing dissatisfactions since endured, I call it 
corrupting still.   You, I could swear to it, remained innocent 
in this sense until the end. Yours, but not mine, was an age in which 
innocence was fostered and carefully- if not perhaps altogether 
innocently- preserved. You had grown up at a time when the most distinguishing 
mark of a lady was the <noli me tangere> writ plain across 
her face. Moreover, because of the particular blot on your family 
escutcheon through what may only have been one unbridled moment on your 
grandmother's part, and because you had the lean-to kitchen and trundle 
bed of your childhood to outgrow, what you obviously most desired 
with both your conscious and unconscious person, what you bent your 
whole will, sensibility, and intelligence upon, was to be a lady. Before 
being daughter, wife, or mother, before being cultured (a word now 
bereft both socially and politically of the sheen you children of frontiersmen 
bestowed on it), before being sorry for the poor, progressive 
about public health, and prettily if somewhat imprecisely humanitarian, 
indeed first and foremost, you were a lady. There was, of course, 
more to the portrait of a lady you carried in your mind's eye than 
the <sine qua non> of her virtue. A lady, you made clear to me both 
by precept and example, never raised her voice or slumped in her chair, 
never failed in social tact (in heaven, for instance, would not mention 
St& John the Baptist's head), never pouted or withdrew or 
scandalized in company, never reminded others of her physical presence 
by unseemly sound or gesture, never indulged in public scenes or private 
confidences, never spoke of money save in terms of alleviating suffering, 
never gossiped or maligned, never stressed but always minimized 
the hopelessness of anything from sin to death itself. 
With each song he gave verbal footnotes. The songs Sandburg sang often 
reminded listeners of songs of a kindred character they knew entirely 
or in fragments. Often these listeners would refer Sandburg to persons 
who had similar ballads or ditties. In due time Sandburg was 
a walking thesaurus of American folk music.   After he had finished 
the first two volumes of his <Lincoln>, Sandburg went to work 
assembling a book of songs out of hobo and childhood days and from the 
memory of songs others had taught him. He rummaged, found composers 
and arrangers, collaborated on the main design and outline of harmonization 
with musicians, ballad singers, and musicologists.   The 
result was a collection of 280 songs, ballads, ditties, brought together 
from all regions of America, more than one hundred never before published: 
<The American Songbag>. Each song or ditty was prefaced 
by an author's note which indicated the origin and meaning of the 
song as well as special interest the song had, musical arrangement, 
and most of the chorus and verses.   The book, published in 1927, 
has been selling steadily ever since. As Sandburg said at the time: 
"It is as ancient as the medieval European ballads brought to 
the Appalachian Mountains, it is as modern as skyscrapers, the Volstead 
Act, and the latest oil well gusher". 

#SCHOPENHAUER NEVER LEARNED# 

Sandburg is in constant demand as an entertainer. Two things 
contribute to his popularity. First, Carl respects his audience and 
prepares his speeches carefully. Even when he is called upon for impromptu 
remarks, he has notes written on the back of handy envelopes. 
He has his own system of shorthand, devised by abbreviations: "humility" 
will be "humly", "with" will be "~w", and "that" 
will be "~tt".   The second reason for his popularity 
is his complete spontaneity with the guitar. It is a mistake, however, 
to imagine that Sandburg uses the guitar as a prop. He is no dextrous-fingered 
college boy but rather a dedicated, humble, and bashful 
apostle of this instrument. At age seventy-four, he became what he 
shyly terms a "pupil" of Andres Segovia, the great guitarist of 
the Western world.   It is not easy to become Segovia's pupil. 
One needs high talent. Segovia has written about Carl: 
"His fingers labor heavily on the strings and he asked for my help 
in disciplining them. I found that this precocious, grown-up boy of 
74 deserved to be taught. There has long existed a brotherly affection 
between us, thus I accepted him as my pupil. Just as in the case of 
every prodigy child, we must watch for the efficacy of my teaching to 
show up in the future- if he should master all the strenuous exercises 
I inflicted on him.   To play the guitar as he aspires will 
devour his three-fold energy as a historian, a poet and a singer. One 
cause of Schopenhauer's pessimism was the fact that he failed to 
learn the guitar. I am certain that Carl Sandburg will not fall into 
the same sad philosophy. The heart of this great poet constantly bubbles 
forth a generous joy of life- with or without the guitar".

The public's identification of Carl Sandburg and the guitar 
is no happenstance. Nor does Carl reject this identity.   He 
is proud of having Segovia for a friend and dedicated a poem to him 
titled "The Guitar".   Carl says it is the greatest poem 
ever written to the guitar because he has never heard of any other poem 
to that subtle instrument. "A portable companion always ready to 
go where you go- a small friend weighing less than a freshborn infant- 
to be shared with few or many- just two of you in sweet meditation".

The <New York Herald Tribune's> photographer, 
Ira Rosenberg, tells an anecdote about the time he wanted to take a 
picture of Carl playing a guitar. Carl hadn't brought his along. Mr& 
Rosenberg suggested that they go out and find one.   "Preferably", 
said Carl, "one battered and worn, such as might be found 
in a pawnshop".   They went to the pawnshop of Joseph Miller 
of 1162 Sixth Avenue.   "Mr& Miller was in the shop", 
the <Herald Tribune> story related, "but was reluctant to have 
anybody's picture taken inside, because his business was too 'confidential' 
for pictures.   "But after introductions he asked: 
'Carl Sandburg? Well <you> can pose inside'. 
"He wanted Mr& Sandburg to pose with one of the guitars he had 
displayed behind glass in the center of his shop, but the poet eyed this 
somewhat distastefully. 'Kalamazoo guitars', he said, 'used 
by radio hillbilly singers'.   "He chose one from Mr& Miller's 
window, a plain guitar with no fancy polish. While the picture 
was taken, Mr& Miller's disposition to be generous to Mr& 
Sandburg increased to the point where he advised, 'I won't even 
charge you the one dollar rental fee'". 

#A KNOWLEDGEABLE CELEBRITY# 

When someone in the audience rose and asked how does it feel to 
be a celebrity, Carl said, "A celebrity is a fellow who eats celery 
with celerity".   This has always been Carl's attitude. 
Lloyd Lewis wrote that when he first knew Carl in 1916, Sandburg was 
making $27.50 a week writing features for the <Day Book> and eating 
sparse luncheons in one-arm restaurants. He walked home at night 
for two miles beyond the end of a suburban trolley.   When fame 
came it changed Sandburg only slightly. Lewis remembered another newspaperman 
asking, "Carl, have your ideas changed any since you got 
all these comforts"?   Carl thought the question over slowly 
and answered: "I know a starving man who is fed never remembers 
all the pangs of his starvation, I know that".   That was all 
he said, Lewis reports. That was all he had to say.   In answer 
to a <New York Times> query on what is fame ("Thoughts on 
Fame", October 23, 1960), Carl said: "Fame is a figment of a 
pigment. It comes and goes. It changes with every generation. There 
never were two fames alike. One fame is precious and luminous; another 
is a bubble of a bauble". #"AH, DID YOU ONCE SEE SHELLEY 
PLAIN"?#

The impression you get from Carl Sandburg's home is 
one of laughter and happiness; and the laughter and the happiness are 
even more pronounced when no company is present.   Carl has been 
married to Paula for fifty-three years, and he has not made a single 
major decision without careful consideration and thorough discussion 
with his wife. Through all these years, Mrs& Sandburg has pointedly 
avoided the limelight. She has shared her husband's greatness, 
but only within the confines of their home; it is a dedication which 
began the moment she met Carl.   Mrs& Sandburg received a 
Phi Beta Kappa key from the University of Chicago and she was busy 
writing and teaching when she met Sandburg. "You are the 'Peoples' 
Poet'" was her appraisal in 1908, and she stopped teaching 
and writing to devote herself to the fulfillment of her husband's 
career.   She has rarely been photographed with him and, except 
for Carl's seventy-fifth anniversary celebration in Chicago in 1953, 
she has not attended the dozens of banquets, functions, public appearances, 
and dinners honoring him- all of this upon her insistence. 
Even now I will not intrude upon her except to state a few bare facts.

The only way to describe Paula Sandburg is to say she is 
beautiful in a Grecian sense. Her clothes, her hair, everything about 
her is both graceful and simple. She has small, broad, capable hands 
and an enormous energy.   She is not only a trained mathematician 
and Classicist, but a good architect. She designed and supervised 
the building of the Harbert, Michigan, house, most of which was constructed 
by one local carpenter who carried the heavy beams singly upon 
his shoulder. As the Sandburg goat herd increased, she also designed 
the barn alterations to accommodate them. When erosion threatened 
the foundation of their home in Harbert, Paula Sandburg planted grapevines 
and arranged the snow fences which helped hold the sands away.

She was born Lilian Steichen, her parents immigrants from 
Luxemburg. Her mother called her Paus'l, a Luxemburg endearment 
meaning "pussycat". Some of the children of the family could not 
pronounce this name and called her Paula, a soubriquet Carl liked so 
much she has been Paula ever since.   But neither was Lilian 
her baptismal name. Her parents, pious Roman Catholics, christened 
her Mary Anne Elizabeth Magdalene Steichen. "My mother read a 
book right after I was born and there was a Lilian in the book she 
loved and I became Lilian- and eventually I became Paula".

Lilian Steichen was an exceptional student. This family of Luxemburg 
immigrants, in fact, produced two exceptional children. Paula's 
older brother is Edward Steichen, a talented artist and, for the 
past half-century, one of the world's eminent photographers. (Two 
years ago the photography editor of <Vogue> magazine titled his article 
about Steichen, "The World's Greatest Photographer".)

By the time Lilian had been graduated from public school, her 
parents were doing quite well. Her mother was a good manager and established 
a millinery business in Milwaukee. But her father was not enthusiastic 
about sending young Paula to high school. "This is no 
place for a young girl", he said. The parents compromised, however, 
on a convent school and Paula went to Ursuline Academy in London, 
Ontario.   She was pious, too, once kneeling through the night 
from Holy Thursday to Good Friday, despite the protest of the nuns 
that this was too much for a young girl. She knelt out of reverence 
for having read the <Meditations> of St& Augustine.   She 
read everything else she could get her hands on, including an article 
(she thinks it was in the <Atlantic Monthly>) by Mark Twain on 
"White Slavery". Paula was saddened about what was happening to 
little girls and vowed to kneel no more in Chapel. She had come to 
a decision. If there was ever a thought in her mind she might devote 
her life to religion, it was now dispelled. "I felt that I must devote 
myself to the 'outside' world".   She passed the entrance 
examinations to the University of Illinois, but during the year 
at Urbana felt more important events transpired at the University 
of Chicago.   "And besides, Thorstein Veblen was one of the 
Chicago professors".   At the University of Chicago she studied 
Whitman and Shelley, and became a Socialist. Socialist leaders 
in Milwaukee recognized her worth, not only because of her dedication 
but because of her fluency in German, French, and Luxemburg. She 
once gave a German recitation before a convention of German-language 
teachers in Milwaukee.   Carl and Paula met in Milwaukee 
in 1907 during Paula's Christmas holiday visit to her parents. Carl 
was still Charles A& Sandburg. He "legitimized" Paula for 
Lilian Steichen, and it was Paula who insisted on Carl for Charles.

Victor Berger, the panjandrum of Wisconsin Socialism and 
member of Congress, had asked Paula Steichen to translate some of 
his German editorials into English. Carl, who was stationed in Appleton, 
Wisconsin, organizing for the Social Democrats, was in Berger's 
office and made it his business to escort Paula to the streetcar. 
She left the next day for her teaching job at Princeton, Illinois. 
(After graduation from the University of Chicago, Paula taught 
for two years in the normal school at Valley City, North Dakota, 
then two years at Princeton (Illinois) Township High School.) By 
the time the streetcar pulled away, he had fallen in love with Paula.

A letter awaited her at Princeton. Paula says that even 
though Carl's letters usually began, "Dear Miss Steichen", there 
was an understanding from the beginning that they would become husband 
and wife.   Paula generously lent me one of Carl's love 
letters, dated February 21, 1908, Hotel Athearn, Oshkosh, Wisconsin:

"Dear Miss Steichen: It is a very good letter you 
send me- softens the intensity of this guerilla warfare I am carrying 
on up here. Never until in this work of ~S-~D organization 
have I realized and felt the attitude and experience of a <Teacher>.

The United States is always ready to participate with the Soviet 
Union in serious discussion of these or any other subjects that 
may lead to peace with justice.   Certainly it is not necessary 
to repeat that the United States has no intention of interfering in 
the internal affairs of any nation; by the same token, we reject any 
Soviet attempt to impose its system on us or other peoples by force 
or subversion.   Now this concern for the freedom of other peoples 
is the intellectual and spiritual cement which has allied us with 
more than forty other nations in a common defense effort. Not for a 
moment do we forget that our own fate is firmly fastened to that of these 
countries; we will not act in any way which would jeopardize our 
solemn commitments to them. ##

We and our friends are, of course, 
concerned with self-defense. Growing out of this concern is the realization 
that all people of the Free World have a great stake in the 
progress, in freedom, of the uncommitted and newly emerging nations. 
These peoples, desperately hoping to lift themselves to decent levels 
of living must not, by our neglect, be forced to seek help from, and 
finally become virtual satellites of, those who proclaim their hostility 
to freedom.   But they must have technical and investment assistance. 
This is a problem to be solved not by America alone, but also 
by every nation cherishing the same ideals and in position to provide 
help.   In recent years America's partners and friends in 
Western Europe and Japan have made great economic progress. 
The international economy of 1960 is markedly different from that of 
the early postwar years. No longer is the United States the only major 
industrial country capable of providing substantial amounts of the 
resources so urgently needed in the newly developed countries.

To remain secure and prosperous themselves, wealthy nations must extend 
the kind of co-operation to the less fortunate members that will 
inspire hope, confidence, and progress. A rich nation can for a time, 
without noticeable damage to itself, pursue a course of self-indulgence, 
making its single goal the material ease and comfort of its own citizens- 
thus repudiating its own spiritual and material stake in a peaceful 
and prosperous society of nations. But the enmities it will incur, 
the isolation into which it will descend, and the internal moral 
and spiritual softness that will be engendered, will, in the long term, 
bring it to economic and political disaster.   America did not 
become great through softness and self-indulgence. Her miraculous progress 
in material achievements flows from other qualities far more worthy 
and substantial: adherence to principles and methods consonant 
with our religious philosophy; a satisfaction in hard work; the readiness 
to sacrifice for worthwhile causes; the courage to meet every 
challenge; the intellectual honesty and capacity to recognize the 
true path of her own best interests.   To us and to every nation 
of the Free World, rich or poor, these qualities are necessary today 
as never before if we are to march together to greater security, prosperity 
and peace.   I believe that the industrial countries are 
ready to participate actively in supplementing the efforts of the developing 
nations to achieve progress.   The immediate need for 
this kind of co-operation is underscored by the strain in this nation's 
international balance of payments. Our surplus from foreign business 
transactions has in recent years fallen substantially short of the 
expenditures we make abroad to maintain our military establishments overseas, 
to finance private investment, and to provide assistance to the 
less developed nations. In 1959 our deficit in balance of payments 
approached four billion dollars.   Continuing deficits of anything 
like this magnitude would, over time, impair our own economic growth 
and check the forward progress of the Free World.   We must 
meet this situation by promoting a rising volume of exports and world 
trade. Further, we must induce all industrialized nations of the Free 
World to work together to help lift the scourge of poverty from less 
fortunate. This co-operation in this matter will provide both for 
the necessary sharing of this burden and in bringing about still further 
increases in mutually profitable trade.   New Nations, and 
others struggling with the problems of development, will progress only- 
regardless of any outside help- if they demonstrate faith in their 
own destiny and use their own resources to fulfill it. Moreover, 
progress in a national transformation can be only gradually earned; 
there is no easy and quick way to follow from the oxcart to the jet plane. 
But, just as we drew on Europe for assistance in our earlier years, 
so now do these new and emerging nations that do have this faith 
and determination deserve help.   Respecting their need, one of 
the major focal points of our concern is the South-Asian region. 
Here, 
in two nations alone, are almost five hundred million people, all working, 
and working hard, to raise their standards, and in doing so, to 
make of themselves a strong bulwark against the spread of an ideology 
that would destroy liberty.   I cannot express to you the depth 
of my conviction that, in our own and free world interest, we must co-operate 
with others to help these people achieve their legitimate ambitions, 
as expressed in their different multi-year plans. Through the 
World Bank and other instrumentalities, as well as through individual 
action by every nation in position to help, we must squarely face 
this titanic challenge.   I shall continue to urge the American 
people, in the interests of their own security, prosperity and peace, 
to make sure that their own part of this great project be amply and 
cheerfully supported. Free world decisions in this matter may spell the 
difference between world disaster and world progress in freedom.

Other countries, some of which I visited last month, have similar 
needs.   A common meeting ground is desirable for those nations 
which are prepared to assist in the development effort. During the 
past year I have discussed this matter with the leaders of several Western 
nations.   Because of its wealth of experience, the Organization 
for European Economic Cooperation could help with the initial 
studies needed. The goal is to enlist all available economic resources 
in the industrialized Free World, especially private investment 
capital.   By extending this help, we hope to make possible the 
enthusiastic enrollment of these nations under freedom's banner. 
No more startling contrast to a system of sullen satellites could be 
imagined.   If we grasp this opportunity to build an age of productive 
partnership between the less fortunate nations and those that have 
already achieved a high state of economic advancement, we will make 
brighter the outlook for a world order based upon security and freedom. 
Otherwise, the outlook could be dark indeed. We face, indeed, what 
may be a turning point in history, and we must act decisively and wisely. 
##

As a nation we can successfully pursue these objectives 
only from a position of broadly based strength.   No matter how 
earnest is our quest for guaranteed peace, we must maintain a high degree 
of military effectiveness at the same time we are engaged in negotiating 
the issue of arms reduction. Until tangible and mutually enforceable 
arms reduction measures are worked out we will not weaken the 
means of defending our institutions.   America possesses an enormous 
defense power. It is my studied conviction that no nation will ever 
risk general war against us unless we should become so foolish as 
to neglect the defense forces we now so powerfully support. It is world-wide 
knowledge that any power which might be tempted today to attack 
the United States by surprise, even though we might sustain great 
losses, would itself promptly suffer a terrible destruction. But I once 
again assure all peoples and all nations that the United States, 
except in defense, will never turn loose this destructive power.

During the past year, our long-range striking power, unmatched today 
in manned bombers, has taken on new strength as the Atlas intercontinental 
ballistic missile has entered the operational inventory. In 
fourteen recent test launchings, at ranges of five thousand miles, <Atlas> 
has been striking on an average within two miles of the target. 
This is less than the length of a jet runway- well within the circle 
of destruction. 
Incidentally, there was an <Atlas> firing last 
night. From all reports so far received, its performance conformed to 
the high standards I have just described. Such performance is a great 
tribute to American scientists and engineers, who in the past five 
years have had to telescope time and technology to develop these long-range 
ballistic missiles, where America had none before.   This 
year, moreover, growing numbers of nuclear powered submarines will 
enter our active forces, some to be armed with Polaris missiles. These 
remarkable ships and weapons, ranging the oceans, will be capable of 
accurate fire on targets virtually anywhere on earth.   To meet 
situations of less than general nuclear war, we continue to maintain 
our carrier forces, our many service units abroad, our always ready 
Army strategic forces and Marine Corps divisions, and the civilian 
components. The continuing modernization of these forces is a costly 
but necessary process. It is scheduled to go forward at a rate which 
will steadily add to our strength.   The deployment of a portion 
of these forces beyond our shores, on land and sea, is persuasive demonstration 
of our determination to stand shoulder-to-shoulder with our 
allies for collective security. Moreover, I have directed that steps 
be taken to program on a longer range basis our military assistance to 
these allies. This is necessary for a sounder collective defense system.

Next I refer to our program in space exploration, which 
is often mistakenly supposed to be an integral part of defense research 
and development.   We note that, first, America has already 
made 
great contributions in the past two years to the world's fund of 
knowledge of astrophysics and space science. These discoveries are of 
present interest chiefly to the scientific community; but they are 
important foundation stones for more extensive exploration of outer space 
for the ultimate benefit of all mankind.   Second, our military 
missile program, going forward so successfully, does not suffer from 
our present lack of very large rocket engines, which are necessary 
in distant space exploration. I am assured by experts that the thrust 
of our present missiles is fully adequate for defense requirements.

Third, the United States is pressing forward in the development 
of large rocket engines to place vehicles of many tons into space 
for exploration purposes.   Fourth, in the meantime, it is necessary 
to remember that we have only begun to probe the environment immediately 
surrounding the earth. Using launch systems presently available, 
we are developing satellites to scout the world's weather; satellite 
relay stations to facilitate and extend communications over the 
globe; for navigation aids to give accurate bearings to ships and 
aircraft; and for perfecting instruments to collect and transmit the 
data we seek.   Fifth, we have just completed a year's experience 
with our new space law. I believe it deficient in certain particulars. 
Suggested improvements will be submitted to the Congress shortly. 
##

The accomplishment of the many tasks I have alluded to requires 
the continuous strengthening of the spiritual, intellectual, 
and 
economic sinews of American life. The steady purpose of our society 
is to assure justice, before God, for every individual. We must be 
ever alert that freedom does not wither through the careless amassing 
of restrictive controls or the lack of courage to deal boldly with the 
issues of the day.   A year ago, when I met with you, the nation 
was emerging from an economic downturn, even though the signs of resurgent 
prosperity were not then sufficiently convincing to the doubtful. 
Today our surging strength is apparent to everyone. 1960 promises 
to be the most prosperous year in our history.   Yet we continue 
to be afflicted by nagging disorders. Among current problems that 
require solutions, participated in by citizens as well as government, 
are:   the need to protect the public interest in situations of 
prolonged labor-management stalemate;   the persistent refusal 
to come to grips with a critical problem in one sector of American agriculture;

the continuing threat of inflation, together with 
the persisting tendency toward fiscal irresponsibility;   in certain 
instances the denial to some of our citizens of equal protection 
of the law.

The group, upon the issuance of its first press release on December 
21, 1957, designated itself a "Committee of Investigation". 
In the course of its inquiry, it took testimony from only seven witnesses. 
It heard Bang-Jensen twice and his lawyer, Adolf A& Berle, 
Jr&, once.   Its second press release was on January 15, 
1958, and it recommended that the secret papers be destroyed. It also 
implied that Paul Bang-Jensen had been irresponsible.   On 
January 18, Ernest Gross conducted a press conference at the U&N& 
lasting an hour. Here, he openly attacked Bang-Jensen and referred 
to his "aberrant conduct". This conference was held despite 
Stavropoulos' assurance to Adolf Berle, who was leaving the same 
day for Puerto Rico, that nothing would be done until his return on 
January 22, except that the Secretary General would probably order 
the list destroyed.   On January 24 Paul Bang-Jensen, accompanied 
by Adolf Berle, was met by Dragoslav Protitch and Colonel 
Frank Begley, former Police Chief of Farmington, Conn&, and now 
head of U&N& special police.   The four, bundled in overcoats, 
mounted to the wind-swept roof of the U&N&   There, 
Begley lit a fire in a wire basket, and Bang-Jensen dropped four 
sealed envelopes into the flames. In one of these he said were notes 
on the identities of the eighty-one refugees.   The method of destroying 
the evidence embarrassed Paul Bang-Jensen. He knew it would 
be implied that it was done in this way at his insistence. He was 
right, and Peter Marshall could not help but recall Andrew Cordier's 
words on the subject, "Well, it seemed as good a place as any 
to do the job".   The Gross group had been formed for the express 
purpose of advising the Secretary General. Hammarskjold's supposed 
desire to seek outside legal advice in the guise of Ernest Gross 
is illusion, at best. Gross's being "outside" the U&N& 
applied only to a physical state, not an objective one. But by the 
time the papers were finally disposed of, the group had informed the 
world of its purpose, its recommendations, and its belief that Paul 
Bang-Jensen was not of sound mind.   Shortly the group would issue 
its report to the Secretary General, recommending Paul Bang-Jensen's 
dismissal from the United Nations. The contents of this 
195-page document would become known to many before it would become known 
to the man it was written about. ##

"Until this Hungarian 
Committee matter came up, Bang-Jensen was a fine and devoted individual. 
I had known him for some years, when I was a delegate and before, 
and this manner had never been his".   Ernest A& Gross 
leaned back in his chair and told Peter Marshall how Secretary General 
Dag Hammarskjold had, on December 4,1957, called him in as a 
private lawyer to review Bang-Jensen's conduct "relating to his 
association with the Special Committee on the problem of Hungary". 
The result was the "Gross Report", prepared by Gross, as chairman, 
with the assistance of two U&N& Under Secretaries, Constantin 
Stavropoulos and Philippe de Seynes.   "Yes", Gross 
went on, "Bang-Jensen was an up-and-coming young man. He had 
always done well. Never well known, but he had done his work competently 
**h".   Gross had received Marshall courteously and they 
were discussing the case. "You know", the lawyer said, "it's 
difficult to talk like this about a man who can't answer back".

Gross was behind a clean-top desk, only a manila folder before 
him. Marshall sat in one of the several leather chairs. Outside the 
office windows, twenty-four stories above Wall Street, a light rain 
was falling.   "Mr& Gross, your report says that 'our 
function is investigative and advisory and does not in any way derogate 
from or prejudice Mr& Bang-Jensen's rights as a staff member'. 
You know, Bang-Jensen characterized your Committee as having prejudged 
his case".   Gross swung his swivel chair. "Well, 
how could that have been? I don't consider that he was prejudged. 
We were given a job and we carried it out, and later, his case was taken 
up by the Disciplinary Committee **h.   "We have nothing 
to hide under a bushel. We did our job, Mr& Stavropoulos and Mr& 
de Seynes and myself, taking evidence from a number of people".

"What did you think about his mental state"?   "I 
think our report sums up our finding", Gross answered. "Don't 
forget, here was a man who had been accusing his colleagues for almost 
a year of willfully attempting to present an incorrect report **h.

"This was not merely alleging errors, but was carried out 
by day-after-day allegations in memos, written charges of serious consequence 
**h.   "This is a distressing thing. Supposing you or 
I were being accused in this manner, and yet we were doing our level 
best to carry on our work. No organization can carry on like that.

"I've been in government and I can tell some pretty hairy 
stories 
about personnel difficulties, so I know what a problem he was".

"What I'd like you to comment on is the criticism leveled 
at your Committee".   "What do you mean"? 
"For instance, regarding the fact that the Gross Committee issued 
two interim announcements to the press during its investigation. You 
know Bang-Jensen was told the Committee was 'to convey its views, 
suggestions and recommendations to the Secretary General'. In his 
own words, Bang-Jensen 'took it for granted that the Group would 
report to the Secretary General privately and not in public'. He 
claimed that the release of the preliminary findings was 'prejudicial 
to his position'".   Gross bristled. For an instant he 
glared speechless at Marshall. "Listen", he said. "I thought 
the entire report was going to be confidential from beginning to end. 
But you know Bang-Jensen launched an active campaign against us in 
the press. It was getting so that we, the Committee, were being tried. 
You can find it in the papers".   "Well, as a matter of 
fact, I've looked through back-issue files of New York papers for 
December, 1957, and haven't found a great deal"-   Gross 
shot another look at Marshall. "It wasn't necessarily all here 
in New York. Don't forget the foreign press".   "Then 
what about the second interim public announcement? This cited Bang-Jensen's 
'aberrant conduct'".   "The reason for that 
report was to settle the matter of the list. As far as I'm concerned, 
it was a separate matter from the general Committee study of Bang-Jensen's 
conduct. The January fifteen report recommended that 
Bang-Jensen be instructed to burn the list- the papers- in the presence 
of a U&N& Security Officer".   "How about your 
press conference three days later- what was the reason for that? 
Bang-Jensen said you told correspondents that you had checked in advance 
to make sure the term 'aberrant conduct' was not libelous. 
He claimed you made other slanderous allegations".   Gross paused 
and repeated himself. "The entire object of the press conference 
was to clarify the problem of the list, since many in the press were 
querying the U&N& about it. What was the list? I don't know. 
Bang-Jensen never explained what the documents or papers were that 
he had in his possession.   "It was foolish of him to keep 
them, whatever they were. He could have been blackmailed, or his family 
might have been threatened. Of course the matter caught the public's 
attention. We attempted to conclude this, and did so by having 
the papers burned.   Hammerskjold didn't like the way it was 
carried out. It was a sort of Go^tterda^mmerung affair. Hammarskjold 
believes the U&N& is an organization that settles matters 
in a procedural way **h".   Peter Marshall reflected. If Hammarskjold 
had not wanted the list disposed of in this manner, and if 
Bang-Jensen had not wanted it- who had ordered it?   "Mr& 
Gross, concerning the formation of your Committee, there's the 
fact that you have been a legal adviser to the U&N& in the past; 
as I understand it, Mr& Hammarskjold wanted <outside> advice. 
Could you comment on that"?   "I've served as a counsel 
for the U&N& for some years, specializing particularly in real 
estate matters or other problems that the regular U&N& legal 
staff might not be equipped to handle. Mr& Stavropoulos is the U&N& 
legal chief and a very good man, but he is not fully versed on 
some technical points of American law".   "What did you think 
about Bang-Jensen's contention of errors and omissions in the 
Hungarian report"? Marshall asked.   "Those"! Gross 
answered. "Why, Mick Shann went over and over the report with Alsing 
Andersen, trying to check them out. Even after the incident between 
Bang-Jensen and Shann in the Delegates' Lounge **h and this 
was not the way the <Chicago Tribune> presented it".   Gross 
reached in his desk and pulled out two newspaper clippings. One 
was an article on the U&N& by Alice Widener from the <Cincinnati 
Enquirer>. The other was by Chesly Manley in the <Chicago 
Daily Tribune>.   Gross pointed to the Manley story. "I 
know Ches, he's a friend of mine. He probably didn't mean to write 
it this way, or maybe he did. There wasn't any 'violent argument' 
between Bang-Jensen and Shann, as the <Tribune> puts it. That 
implies that Shann was on the enemy side. You see what I mean? 
How it's phrased there- the word 'violent'.   "The 
case was that Bang-Jensen came up to Shann claiming he had found further 
errors in the report. 'I've found errors and I want you to 
look them over'. So once again Shann had to argue with him about 
this. But it wasn't a violent discussion. And after all this, Shann 
went over all that Bang-Jensen had brought up".   (Shann's 
own report, Peter Marshall reflected, describes the encounter as 
"immoderate". Bang-Jensen was in "hysterical condition".)

Gross stopped briefly, then went on. "Shann was responsible 
for the report. He has felt terrible about all this. It was a good 
report, he did all he could to make it a good report. When I speak 
of how Shann felt, I know well. Don't forget, I am an old member 
of the club, a former delegate. I think you are being unfair to take 
these things up now.   "You know, this hits in many areas. It 
appeals to those who were frustrated in the outcome of the Hungarian 
situation. Don't forget, the U&N& did no more than the United 
States did **h it takes a great deal of sophisticated thought to 
get the impact of this fact". 

#CHAPTER 22#

FROM THE HOME 
of his friend, Henrik Kauffmann, in Washington, D&C&, Paul 
Bang-Jensen sent a telegram dated December 9, 1957, to Ernest Gross. 
It said in part:   "**h the matters to be considered are 
obviously of a grave character, and I therefore respectfully request 
that the hearing be postponed for two weeks in order that I might make 
adequate preparation".   Ernest Gross replied the next day, 
putting the suspended diplomat's fears to rest. "This reveals some 
misunderstanding on your part. The group conducting the review is 
not holding formal hearings. It wished to pursue, in the course of this 
review, questions arising from the body of material already in its 
possession **h".   It sounded like a fair enough invitation, 
Peter Marshall reflected, and Bang-Jensen must have thought so too, 
because on the thirteenth, he met the group of three on the thirty-sixth 
floor of the U&N&. There, Ernest Gross further assured him:

"We were requested by the Secretary General, as I understand 
it, to discuss with you such matters as appear to us to be relevant, 
and we are not of course either a formal group or a committee 
in the sense of being guided by any rules or regulations of the Secretariat. 
<The only rules which I think we shall follow will be those 
of common sense, justice, and fairness">.   Peter Marshall 
noted that Bang-Jensen had later referred to his two interviews with 
the Gross group as "unfortunate experiences", and after his second 
meeting on the sixteenth the Dane refused to attend further hearings 
without legal counsel. Marshall pondered the reason for this, and 
pondered too the replacement of one member of the three-man group.

J& A& C& Robertson, after serving Gross one week, left 
for England. 
Fortunately the hole was found at last and plugged. Another week passed 
and even the missionaries were enjoying the voyage. The sickness 
was gone and, after all, the two young couples were on their honeymoon.

The only lasting difficulty was the food. In spite of Pickering 
Dodge's explicit instructions regarding variation of meals, the 
food did not seem the same as at home. "Everything tasted differently 
from what it does on land and those things I was most fond of at 
home, I loathed the most here", Ann noted. At last they concluded 
that the heavy, full feeling in their stomachs was due to lack of exercise. 
Walking was the remedy, they decided, but a deck full of chicken 
coops and pigpens was hardly suitable. Skipping was the alternative. 
A rope was found and, like children in school, the missionaries 
skipped for hours at a time. Finally, tiring of so monotonous a form 
of exercise, they decided to dance instead. It was much more fun, reminding 
the girls of their old carefree days in the Hasseltine frolics 
room at Bradford. The weather turned warmer and with it came better 
appetites, although Harriet was still a little off-color. She could 
not face coffee or tea without milk, and was always craving types of 
food that were not available aboard a sailing ship. By now she was sure 
she was going to have a baby, deciding it would be born in India 
or Burma that November. She was more excited than frightened at the 
prospect of having her first child in a foreign land.   The crew 
of the <Caravan> never failed to amaze Ann, who during her stay 
in Salem must frequently have overheard strong sailorly language. She 
wrote in her journal, "I have not heard the least profane language 
since I have been on board the vessel. This is very uncommon".

She was now enjoying the voyage very much. Even the first wave 
of homesickness had passed, although there were moments when Captain 
Heard pointed out on his compass the direction of Bradford that she 
felt a little twinge at her heart. As for Adoniram, she found him 
to be "the kindest" of husbands.   On Sundays, with the permission 
of Captain Heard, who usually attended with two of his officers, 
services were held in the double cabin. Sometimes a ship would be 
sighted and the <Caravan> pass so close that people could easily 
be seen on the distant deck. Captain Heard did not communicate with 
any strange vessels because of the possibility of war between the United 
States and Britain. As warmer temperatures were encountered Ann 
and Harriet were introduced to the pleasures of bathing daily in salt 
water.   When May came the <Caravan> had already crossed 
the Equator. They were sailing round the Cape of Good Hope; the 
weather had turned wet and cold. At this time Harriet wrote in a letter 
which after their finally landing in India was sent to her mother:

"I care not how soon we reach Calcutta, and are placed 
in a still room, with a bowl of milk and a loaf of Indian bread. I 
can hardly think of this simple fare without exclaiming, oh, what a luxury. 
I have been so weary of the excessive rocking of the vessel, and 
the almost intolerable smell after the rain, that I have done little 
more than lounge on the bed for several days. But I have been blest 
with excellent spirits, and to-day have been running about the deck, 
and <dancing> in our room for <exercise>, as well as ever".

While studying at the seminary in Andover, Adoniram had been working 
on a New Testament translation from the original Greek. He 
had brought it along to continue during the voyage. There was one particular 
word that troubled his conscience. This was the Greek word most 
often translated as "baptism".   Born a Congregationalist, 
he had been baptized as a tiny baby in the usual manner by having 
a few drops of water sprinkled on his head, yet nowhere in the whole of 
the New Testament could he find a description of anybody being baptized 
by sprinkling. John the Baptist used total immersion in the River 
Jordan for believers; even Christ was baptized by this method. 
The more Adoniram 
looked at the Greek word for baptism, the more unhappy 
he became over its true meaning.   As was only natural he 
confided his searchings to Ann, conceding ruefully that it certainly 
looked as if their own 
Congregationalists were wrong and the Baptists right.

Ann was very troubled. By this time she had learned that 
it was futile to argue with her young husband, yet the uncomfortable 
fact remained: the American Congregationalists were sending them as 
missionaries to the Far East and paying their salaries. What would 
happen if Adoniram "changed horses in midstream"? Baptists and 
Congregationalists in New England were on friendly terms. How embarrassing 
it would be if the newly appointed Congregationalist missionaries 
should suddenly switch their own beliefs in order to embrace Baptist 
teachings!   "If you become a Baptist, I will not", 
Ann informed her husband, but sweeping her threat aside Adoniram 
continued to search for an answer to the personal dilemma in which he 
found himself.   By early June they were a hundred miles off the 
coast of Ceylon, by which time all four missionaries were hardened 
seafarers. Even Harriet could boldly write, "I know not how it is; 
but I hear the thunder roll; see the lightning flash; and the 
waves threatening to swallow up the vessel; and yet remain unmoved".

Ann thrilled to the sight of a delicate butterfly and two 
strange tropical birds. Land was near, and on June 12, one hundred 
and fourteen days after leaving America, they actually saw, twenty miles 
away, the coast of Orissa.   Captain Heard gave orders for 
the ship to be anchored in the Bay of Bengal until he could obtain 
the services of a reputable pilot to steer her through the shallow waters.

Sometimes ships waited for days for such a man, but Captain 
Heard was lucky. Next day a ship arrived with an English pilot, 
his leadsman, an English youth, and the first Hindu the Judsons and 
Newells had ever seen. A little man with a "a dark copper color" 
skin, he was wearing "calico trousers and a white cotton short gown". 
Ann was plainly disappointed in his appearance. "He looks 
as feminine as you can imagine", she decided.   The pilot possessed 
excellent skill at his calling; all day long the <Caravan> 
slowly made her way through the difficult passages. Alas, to Ann's 
consternation, his language while thus employed left much to be desired. 
He swore so loudly at the top of his voice, that she didn't get 
any sleep all the next night.   Next morning the <Caravan> was 
out of the treacherous Bay. Relieved of the major part of his responsibility 
for the safety of the ship, the pilot's oaths became fewer. 
Slowly she moved up the Hooghli River, a mouth of the mighty Ganges, 
toward Calcutta.   Ann was entranced with the view, as 
were her husband and friends. Running across the deck, which was empty 
now that the livestock had been killed and eaten, they sniffed the spice-laden 
breezes that came from the shore, each pointing out new and 
exciting wonders to the other.   Out came the journal and in it 
went Ann's own description of the scene:   "On each side 
of the Hoogli, where we are now sailing, are the Hindoo cottages, as 
thick together as the houses in our seaports. They are very small, 
and in the form of haystacks, without either chimney or windows. They 
are situated in the midst of trees, which hang over them, and appear 
truly romantick. The grass and fields of rice are perfectly green, and 
herds of cattle are everywhere feeding on the banks of the river, and 
the natives are scattered about differently employed. Some are fishing, 
some driving the team, and many are sitting indolently on the banks 
of the river. The pagodas we have passed are much larger than the 
houses".   Harriet was just as delighted. Where were the hardships 
she had expected? She was certain now that it would be no harder 
to bear her child here in such pleasant surroundings than at home 
in the big white house in Haverhill. With childlike innocence she wrote 
of the Indians as "walking with fruit and umbrellas in their hands, 
with the tawny children around them **h. This is the most delightful 
<trial> I have ever had", she decided.   The Indians 
who came aboard ship to collect the mail also interested her greatly, 
even if she was suitably shocked, according to the customs of the society 
in which she had been reared, to find them "naked, except a piece 
of cotton cloth wrapped around their middle".   At last they 
saw Calcutta, largest city of Bengal and the <Caravan's> destination. 
Founded August 24, 1690 by Job Charnock of the East India 
Company, and commonly called "The City of Palaces", it seemed 
a vast and elegant place to Ann Hasseltine Judson. Solid brick 
buildings painted dazzling white, large domes and tall, picturesque palms 
stretched as far as the eye could see, while the wharves and harbor 
were filled with tall-masted sailing ships. The noise stunned her. 
Crowds flocked through the waterfront streets chattering loudly in their 
strange-sounding Bengali tongue.   Harriet's mouth watered 
with anticipation when after months of dreaming she sat down at last 
to her much-craved milk and fresh bread. Ann, pleased to see her friend 
happy, was intrigued by the new fruits a friend of Captain Heard 
had sent on board for their enjoyment. Cautiously she sampled her first 
pineapple and another fruit whose taste she likened to that of "a 
rich pear". Though she did not then know its name, this strange new 
fruit was a banana. 

#SIX#

The first act of Adoniram and Samuel 
on reaching Calcutta was to report at the police station, a necessity 
when landing in East India Company territory. On the way they 
tried to discover all they could about Burma, and they were disturbed 
to find that Michael Symes's book had not presented an altogether 
true picture. He had failed to realize that the Burmese were not really 
treating him as the important visitor he considered himself. They 
were in fact quietly laughing at him, for their King wished to have 
nothing to do with the Western world. When Captain John Gibault 
of Salem had visited Burma in 1793 his ship, the <Astra>, had been 
promptly commandeered and taken by her captors up the Irrawaddy River. 
Although after much trouble he did manage to get it back, he discovered 
there was no trade to be had. All Captain Gibault took back 
to Salem were a few items for the town's East India Museum. A 
year later another Salem ship returned from Burma with a cargo of gum 
lacquer which nobody wanted to buy. After that Salem ships decided 
to bypass unfriendly Burma.   The Burmese appeared to have little 
knowledge of British power or any idea of trade. They despised 
foreigners. Cruel Burmese governors could, on the slightest whim, take 
a man's life. As for missionaries, even if they succeeded in getting 
into the country they probably would not be allowed to preach the 
Christian faith to the Burmans. Unspeakable tortures or even execution 
might well be their fate.   "Go back to America or any 
other place", well-meaning friends of Captain Heard advised them, 
"but put thoughts of going to Burma out of your heads".   Somewhat 
daunted, the two American missionaries reached the police station 
where they were questioned by a most unfriendly clerk. When he discovered 
they had received from the Company's Court of Directors 
no permission to live in India, coupled with the fact that they were 
Americans who had been sent to Asia to convert "the heathen", he 
became more belligerent than ever.   They explained that they 
desired only to stop in India until a ship traveling on to Burma could 
be found. 
She describes, first, the imaginary reaction of a foreigner puzzled by 
this "unseasonable exultation"; he is answered by a confused, 
honest Englishman. The reasons for the Whig joy on this occasion are 
found to be their expectation of regaining control of the government, 
their delight at the prospect of a new war, their hopes of having the 
Tories hanged, and so on. As for the author of the <Englishman,> 
Mrs& Manley sarcastically deplores that the sole defense of the 
Protestant cause should be left to "<Ridpath, Dick Steele,> and 
their Associates, with the Apostles of <Young Man's> Coffee-House".

Another controversy typical of the war between the 
<Englishman> and the <Examiner> centered on Robert (later Viscount) 
Molesworth, a Whig leader in Ireland and a member of the Irish 
Privy Council. On December 21, the day that the Irish House 
of Commons petitioned for removal of Sir Constantine Phipps, their 
Tory Lord Chancellor, Molesworth reportedly made this remark on the 
defense of Phipps by Convocation: "They that have turned the 
world upside down, are come hither also". Upon complaints from the 
Lower House of Convocation to the House of Lords, he was removed 
from the Privy Council, his remark having been represented as a blasphemous 
affront to the clergy. Steele, who had earlier praised Molesworth 
in <Tatler> No& 189, now defended him in <Englishman> 
No& 46, depicting his removal as a setback to the Constitution. On 
the other hand, Molesworth was naturally assailed in the Tory press. 
Swift, in the Dublin edition of <A Preface to the Bishop of Sarum's 
Introduction,> indicated his feelings by including Molesworth, 
along with Toland, Tindal, and Collins, in the group of those 
who, like Burnet, are engaged in attacking all Convocations of the clergy. 
In the same way he coupled Molesworth and Wharton in a letter 
to Archbishop King, and he had earlier described him as "the worst 
of them" in some "Observations" on the Irish Privy Council 
submitted to Oxford. A month later, in <The Publick Spirit of 
the Whigs,> he used Steele's defense of Molesworth as evidence of 
his disrespect for the clergy, calling Steele's position an affront 
to the "whole Convocation of <Ireland>". On this issue, then, 
as on so many in these months, Steele and Swift took rigidly opposed 
points of view.   In the early months of 1714, the battle 
between Swift and Steele over the issue of the Succession entered its 
major phase. The preliminaries ended with the publication of Steele's 
<Crisis> on January 19, and from that point on the fight proceeded 
at a rapid pace. In answer to <The Crisis,> Swift produced 
<The Publick Spirit of the Whigs,> his most extensive and bitter 
attack on his old friend. By this time, as we shall see, the Tories 
were already planning to "punish" Steele for his political writing 
by expelling him from the House of Commons. Despite his defense 
of himself in the final paper of the <Englishman> and in his speech 
before the House, their efforts were successful. Steele lost his 
seat in Parliament, and his personal quarrel with Swift, by now a public 
issue, thus reached its climax.   Of all the Whig tracts 
written in support of the Succession, <The Crisis> is perhaps the 
most significant. Certainly it is the most pretentious and elaborate. 
Hanoverian agents assisted in promoting circulation, said to have reached 
40,000, and if one may judge by the reaction of Swift and other 
government writers, the work must have had considerable impact. Steele's 
main business here is to arouse public opinion to the immediate 
danger of a Stuart Restoration. To this end, the first and longest 
section of the tract cites all the laws enacted since the Revolution 
to defend England against the "Arbitrary Power of a Popish Prince". 
In his comment on these laws Steele sounds all the usual notes 
of current Whig propaganda, ranging from a criticism of the Tory 
peace to an attack on the dismissal of Marlborough; but his principal 
theme is that the intrigues of the Tories, "our Popish or Jacobite 
Party", pose an immediate threat to Church and State. Like 
Burnet, he deplores the indifference of the people in the face of the 
crisis. Treasonable books striking at the Hanoverian Succession, 
he complains, are allowed to pass unnoticed. In this connection, Swift, 
too, is drawn in for attack: "The Author of the Conduct of 
the Allies has dared to drop Insinuations about altering the Succession". 
In his effort to stir the public from its lethargy, Steele 
goes so far as to list Catholic atrocities of the sort to be expected 
in the event of a Stuart Restoration, and, with rousing rhetoric, he 
asserts that the only preservation from these "Terrours" is to 
be 
found in the laws he has so tediously cited. "It is no time", he 
writes, "to talk with Hints and Innuendos, but openly and honestly 
to profess our Sentiments before our Enemies have compleated and put 
their Designs in Execution against us".   Steele apparently 
professed his sentiments in this book too openly and honestly for his 
own good, since the government was soon to use it as evidence against 
him in his trial before the House. In the final issues of the <Englishman,> 
which ended just as the new session of Parliament began, 
he provided his enemies with still more ammunition. For example, No& 
56 printed the patent giving the Electoral Prince the title of Duke 
of Cambridge. In a few months the Duke was to be the center of 
a controversy of some significance on the touchy question of the Protestant 
Succession. At the order of the Dowager Electress, the Hanoverian 
agents, supported by the Whig leaders, demanded that a writ 
of summons be issued which would call the Duke to England to sit in 
Parliament, thus further insuring the Succession by establishing a Hanoverian 
Prince in England before the Queen's death. Anne was 
furious, and Bolingbroke advised that the request be refused. Oxford, 
realizing that the law required the issuance of the writ, took the opposite 
view, for which the Queen never forgave him. Accordingly the 
request was granted, but the Elector himself, who had not been consulted 
by his mother, rejected the proposal and recalled his agent Schu^tz, 
whose impolitic handling of the affair had caused the Hanoverian 
interest to suffer and had made Oxford's dismissal more likely 
than ever. Steele in this paper is indicating his sympathy for such a 
plan. A few days after this <Englishman> appeared, Defoe reported 
to Oxford that Steele was expected to move in Parliament that the 
Duke be called over; Defoe then commented, "If they Could Draw 
that young Gentleman into Their Measures They would show themselves 
quickly, for they are not asham'd to Say They want Onely a head 
to Make a beginning".   The final issue of the <Englishman,> 
No& 57 for February 15, ran to some length and was printed 
as a separate pamphlet, entitled <The Englishman: Being the Close 
of the Paper So-called>. Steele's purpose is to present a general 
defense of his political writing and a resume of the themes which 
had occupied him in the <Englishman;> but there is much here also 
which bears directly on his personal quarrel with Swift. Thus he complains, 
with considerable justice, that the Tory writers have resorted 
to libel instead of answering his arguments. His birth, education, 
and fortune, he says, have all been ridiculed simply because he has 
spoken with the freedom of an Englishman, and he assures the reader that 
"whoever talks with me, is speaking to a Gentleman born". As 
notable examples of this abuse, he quotes passages from the <Examiner,> 
"that Destroyer of all things", and <The Character of Richard 
Steele,> which he here attributes to Swift. Though put in rather 
maudlin terms, Steele's defense of himself has a reasonable basis. 
His point is simply that the Tories have showered him with personal 
satire, despite the fact that as a private subject he has a right 
to speak on political matters without affronting the prerogative of 
the Sovereign. He claims, too, that his political convictions are simply 
those which are called "Revolution Principles" and which are 
accepted by moderate men in both parties.   The final section 
of this pamphlet is of special interest in a consideration of Steele's 
relations with Swift. It purports to be a letter from Steele to 
a friend at court, who, in Miss Blanchard's opinion, could only be 
meant as Swift. Steele first answers briefly the charges which his 
"dear old Friend" has made about his pamphlet on Dunkirk and 
his 
<Crisis>. Then he launches into an attack on the Tory ministers, 
whom he calls the "New Converts"; by this term he means to ridicule 
their professions of acting in the interest of the Church despite 
their own education and manner of life- a gibe, in other words, 
at the "Presbyterianism" in Harley's family and at Bolingbroke's 
reputed impiety. The Tory leaders, he insinuates, are cynically 
using the Church as a political "By-word" to increase party friction 
and keep themselves in power. This is the principal point made 
in this final section of <Englishman> No& 57, and it caps Steele's 
efforts in his other writing of these months to counteract the 
notion of the Tories as a "Church Party" supported by the body 
of the clergy.   Next, Steele turns his attention to the "Courtier" 
he is addressing. He explains that there are sometimes honorable 
courtiers, but that too often a man who succeeds at court does not 
hesitate to sacrifice his Sovereign and nation to his own avarice 
and ambition. Such, he implies, is the case with his friend, who is not 
really a new convert himself but merely a favorer of new converts. 
If "Jack the Courtier" is really to be taken as Swift, the following 
remark is obviously Steele's comment on Swift's change of 
parties and its effect on their friendship: "I assure you, dear 
<Jack,> when I first found out such an Allay in you, as makes you 
of so malleable a Constitution, that you may be worked into any Form 
an Artificer pleases, I foresaw I should not enjoy your Favour much 
longer". He closes his "letter" by demanding that Dunkirk 
be demolished, that the Pretender be forced to move farther away from 
the coast of England, and that the Queen and the House of Hanover 
come to a better understanding. The last point was soon to be included 
in the "seditious" remarks used against him in Parliament.

The <Examiner,> during Steele's trial a month later, printed 
an answer from the "courtier" addressed to "R& S&" at 
Button's coffee-house. He reviews Steele's entrance into politics 
and finds that his present difficulties are due to his habit of attributing 
to his own abilities and talents achievements which more properly 
should be credited to the indulgence of his friends. Once more, 
in other words, Steele is said to be indebted to Swift for his "wit"; 
this was the form in which their private feud most often appeared 
in the Tory press, especially the <Examiner>. In <The Publick 
Spirit of the Whigs,> it may be noted, Swift himself contemptuously 
dismissed Steele's reference to his friend at court: "I 
suppose by the Style of <old Friend,> and the like, it must be some 
Body <there> of his own Level; among whom, his Party have indeed 
more <Friends> than I could wish".   On February 16, 
Steele took his seat in Parliament. By now he was undergoing a fresh 
torrent of abuse from Tory papers and pamphlets, and action was being 
taken to effect his punishment by expulsion from Parliament. On the 
very day that the parliamentary session began, another "Infamous 
Libel" appeared, entitled <A Letter from the Facetious Dr& 
Andrew Tripe, at Bath, to the Venerable Nestor Ironside>. It is 
filled with the usual personal abuse of Steele, especially of his physical 
appearance; in the opening paragraph, too, Steele is accused 
of extreme egotism, of giving "himself the preference to all the learned, 
his contemporaries, from Dr& Sw-ft himself, even down to 
Poet Cr-spe of the Customhouse". 
When Harold Arlen returned to California in the winter of 1944, it 
was to take up again a collaboration with Johnny Mercer, begun some 
years before. The film they did after his return was an inconsequential 
bit of nothing titled <Out of This World,> a satire on the Sinatra 
bobby-soxer craze. The twist lay in using Bing Crosby's voice 
on the sound track while leading man Eddie Bracken mouthed the 
words. If nothing else, at least two good songs came out of the project, 
"Out of This World" and "June Comes Around Every Year".

Though they would produce some very memorable and lasting 
songs, Arlen and Mercer were not given strong material to work on. 
Their first collaboration came close. Early in 1941 they were assigned 
to a script titled <Hot Nocturne>. It purported to be a reasonably 
serious attempt at a treatment of jazz musicians, their aims, their 
problems- the tug-of-war between the "pure" and the "commercial"- 
and seemed a promising vehicle, for the two men shared a 
common interest in jazz.   Johnny Mercer practically grew up with 
the sound of jazz and the blues in his ears. He was born in Savannah, 
Georgia, in 1909. His father, George A& Mercer, was descended 
from an honored Southern family that could trace its ancestry back 
to one Hugh Mercer, who had emigrated from Scotland in 1747.

The lyricist's father was a lawyer who had branched out into 
real estate. His second wife, Lillian, was the mother of John H& 
Mercer. By the age of six young Johnny indicated that he had the 
call. One day he followed the Irish Jasper Greens, the town band, 
to a picnic and spent the entire day listening, while his family spent 
the day looking. The disappearance caused his family to assign a full-time 
maid to keeping an eye on the boy. But one afternoon Mrs& 
Mercer met her; both were obviously on the way to the Mercer home. 
The mother inquired, "Where's Johnny, and why did you leave him"? 
"There was nothing else I could do", the maid answered, 
satisfied with a rather vague explanation. But Mrs& Mercer demanded 
more. The maid then told her, "Because he fired me".   With 
her son evidencing so strong a musical bent his mother could do little 
else but get him started on the study of music- though she waited 
until he was ten- beginning with the piano and following that with 
the trumpet. Young Mercer showed a remarkable lack of aptitude for 
both instruments. Still, he did like music making and even sang in 
the chapel choir of the Woodberry Forest School, near Orange, Virginia, 
where he sounded fine but did not matriculate too well. 
When he was fifteen John H& Mercer turned out his first song, a 
jazzy little thing he called "Sister Susie, Strut Your 
Stuff". 
If his scholarship and formal musicianship were not all they might have 
been, Mercer demonstrated at an early age that he was gifted with 
a remarkable ear for rhythm and dialect. From his playmates in Savannah, 
Mercer had picked up, along with a soft Southern dialect, traces 
also of the Gullah dialects of Africa. Such speech differences 
made him acutely aware of the richness and expressivness of language.

During the summers, while he was still in school, Mercer worked 
for his father's firm as a messenger boy. It generally took well 
into the autumn for the firm to recover from the summer's help. "We'd 
give him things to deliver, letters, checks, deeds and things 
like that", remembers his half-brother Walter, still in the real estate 
business in Savannah, "and learn days later that he'd absent-mindedly 
stuffed them into his pocket. There they stayed". 
This rather detached attitude toward life's encumbrances has seemed 
to be the dominant trait in Mercer's personality ever since. It 
is, however, a disarming disguise, or perhaps a shield, for not only has 
Mercer proved himself to be one of the few great lyricists over the 
years, but also one who can function remarkably under pressure. He 
has also enjoyed a successful career as an entertainer (his records have 
sold in the millions) and is a sharp businessman.   He has also 
an extraordinary conscience. In 1927 his father's business collapsed, 
and, rather than go bankrupt, Mercer senior turned his firm over 
to a bank for liquidation. He died before he could completely pay off 
his debts. Some years later the bank handling the Mercer liquidation 
received a check for $300,000, enough to clear up the debt. The check 
had been mailed from Chicago, the envelope bore no return address, 
and the check was not signed.   "That's Johnny", sighed 
the bank president, "the best-hearted boy in the world, but absent-minded". 
But Mercer's explanation was simple: "I made out 
the check and carried it around a few days unsigned- in case I lost 
it". When he remembered that he might have not signed the check, 
Mercer made out another for the same amount, instructing the bank to 
destroy the other- especially if he had happened to have absent-mindedly 
signed both of them.   When the family business failed, Mercer 
left school and on his mother's urging- for she hoped that he 
would become an actor- he joined a local little theater group. When 
the troupe traveled to New York to participate in a one-act-play competition- 
and won- Mercer, instead of returning with the rest of 
the company in triumph, remained in New York. He had talked one other 
member of the group to stay with him, but that friend had tired of 
not eating regularly and returned to Savannah. But Mercer hung on, 
living, after a fashion, in a Greenwich Village fourth-flight walk-up. 
"The place had no sink or washbasin, only a bathtub", his mother 
discovered when she visited him. "Johnny insisted on cooking a 
chicken dinner in my honor- he's always been a good cook- and I'll 
never forget him cleaning the chicken in the tub".   A story, 
no doubt apocryphal, for Mercer himself denies it, has him sporting 
a monacle in those Village days. Though merely clear glass, it 
was a distinctive trade mark for an aspiring actor who hoped to imprint 
himself upon the memories of producers. One day in a bar, so the legend 
goes, someone put a beer stein with too much force on the monacle 
and broke it. The innocent malfeasant, filled with that supreme sense 
of honor found in bars, insisted upon replacing the destroyed monacle- 
and did, over the protests of the former owner- with a square monacle. 
Mercer is supposed to have refused it with, "Anyone who wears 
a square monacle must be affected"!   Everett Miller, then 
assistant director for the <Garrick Gaieties>, a Theatre Guild 
production, needed a lyricist for a song he had written; he just 
happened not to need any actor at the moment, however. For him Mercer 
produced the lyric to "Out of Breath Scared to Death of You", 
introduced in that most successful of all the <Gaieties>, by Sterling 
Holloway. This 1930 edition also had songs in it by Vernon Duke 
and Ira Gershwin, by E& Y& Harburg and Duke, and by Harry 
Myers. Entrance into such stellar song writing company encouraged 
the burgeoning song writer to take a wife, Elizabeth Meehan, a dancer 
in the <Gaieties>. The Mercers took up residence in Brooklyn, 
and Mercer found a regular job in Wall Street "misplacing stocks 
and bonds".   When he heard that Paul Whiteman was looking 
for singers to replace the Rhythm Boys, Mercer applied and got the 
job, "not for my voice, I'm sure, but because I could write songs 
and material generally". While with the Whiteman band Mercer met 
Jerry Arlen. He had yet to meet Harold Arlen, for although they 
had "collaborated" on "Satan's Li'l Lamb", Mercer and 
Harburg had worked from a lead sheet the composer had furnished them. 
The lyric, Mercer remembers, was tailored to fit the unusual melody.

Mercer's Whiteman association brought him into contact 
with 
Hoagy Carmichael, whose "Snowball" Mercer relyriced as "Lazybones", 
in which form it became a hit and marked the real beginning 
of Mercer's song-writing career. After leaving Whiteman, Mercer 
joined the Benny Goodman band as a vocalist. With the help of Ziggy 
Elman, also in the band, he transformed a traditional Jewish melody 
into a popular song, "And the Angels Sing". The countrywide 
success of "Lazybones" and "And the Angels Sing" could only 
lead to Hollywood, where, besides Harold Arlen, Mercer collaborated 
with Harry Warren, Jimmy Van Heusen, Richard Whiting, Walter 
Donaldson, Jerome Kern, and Arthur Schwartz. Mercer has also 
written both music and lyrics for several songs. He may be the only 
song writer ever to have collaborated with a secretary of the U& S& 
Treasury; he collaborated on a song with William Hartman Woodin, 
who was Secretary of the Treasury, 1932-33.   When Johnny 
Mercer and Harold Arlen began their collaboration in 1940, Mercer, 
like Arlen, had several substantial film songs to his credit, among 
them "Hooray for Hollywood", "Ride, Tenderfoot, Ride", 
"Have You Got Any Castles, Baby?", and "Too Marvelous 
for Words" (all with Richard Whiting); with Harry Warren he 
did "The Girl Friend of the Whirling Dervish", "Jeepers Creepers", 
and "You Must Have Been a Beautiful Baby". Mercer's 
lyrics are characterized by an unerring ear for rhythmic nuances, 
a puckish sense of humor expressed in language with a colloquial flair. 
Though versatile and capable of turning out a ballad lyric with 
the best of them, Mercer's forte is a highly polished quasi-folk wit.

His casual, dreamlike working methods, often as not <in absentia>, 
were an abrupt change from Harburg's, so that Arlen had 
to adjust again to another approach to collaboration. There were times 
that he worked with both lyricists simultaneously.   Speaking 
of his work with Johnny Mercer, Arlen says, "Our working habits 
were strange. After we got a script and the spots for the songs were 
blocked out, we'd get together for an hour or so every day. While Johnny 
made himself comfortable on the couch, I'd play the tunes for 
him. He has a wonderfully retentive memory. After I would finish 
playing the songs, he'd just go away without a comment. I wouldn't 
hear from him for a couple of weeks, then he'd come around with the 
completed lyric".   Arlen is one of the few (possibly the only) 
composer Mercer has been able to work with so closely, for they held 
their meetings in Arlen's study. "Some guys bothered me", 
Mercer has said. "I couldn't write with them in the same room with 
me, but I could with Harold. He is probably our most original composer; 
he often uses very odd rhythms, which makes it difficult, and 
challenging, for the lyric writer".   While Arlen and Mercer 
collaborated on <Hot Nocturne>, Mercer worked also with Arthur 
Schwartz on another film, <Navy Blues>. Arlen, too, worked on 
other projects at the same time with old friend Ted Koehler. Besides 
doing a single song, "When the Sun Comes Out", they worked on 
the ambitious <Americanegro Suite>, for voices and piano, as well 
as songs for films.   The <Americanegro Suite> is in a sense 
an extension of the Cotton Club songs in that it is a collection 
of Negro songs, not for a night club, but for the concert stage. The 
work had its beginning in 1938 with an eight-bar musical strain to which 
Koehler set the words "There'll be no more work/ There'll 
be no 
more worry", matching the spiritual feeling of the jot. This grew 
into the song "Big Time Comin'". By September 1940 the suite 
had developed into a collection of six songs, "four spirituals, a 
dream, and a lullaby".   The Negro composer Hall Johnson studied 
the <Americanegro Suite> and said of it, "Of all the many 
songs written by white composers and employing what claims to be a Negroid 
idiom in both words and music, these six songs by Harold Arlen 
and Ted Koehler easily stand far out above the rest. Thoroughly 
modern in treatment, they are at the same time, full of simple sincerity 
which invariably characterizes genuine Negro folk-music and are by 
no means to be confused with the average 'Broadway Spirituals' 
which depend for their racial flavor upon sundry allusions to the 'Amen 
Corner', 'judgement day', 'Gabriel's horn', and a 
frustrated devil- with a few random 'Hallelujahs' thrown in for 
good measure.

I feel obliged to describe this cubbyhole. It had a single porcelain 
stall and but one cabinet for the chairing of the bards. It was 
here that the terror-stricken Dennis Moon played an unrehearsed role 
during the children's party. A much larger room, adjacent to the 
lavatory, served as a passageway to and from the skimpy toilet. That 
unused room was large enough for- well, say an elephant could get 
into it **h and, as a matter of fact, an elephant <did> **h   Something 
occurred on the morning of the children's party which may 
illustrate the kind of trouble our restricted toilet facilities caused 
us. It so happened that sports writer Arthur Robinson got out of the 
hospital that morning after promising his doctor that he would be back 
in 
an hour or two to continue his convalescence. Arthur Robinson traveled 
with the baseball clubs as staff correspondent for the <American>. 
He was ghost writer for Babe Ruth, whose main talent for literary 
composition was the signing of his autograph. Robbie was a war veteran 
with battle-shattered knees.   He arrived on crutches at the 
Newspaper Club with one of his great pals, Oliver Herford, artist, 
author, and foe of stupidity. Mr& Herford's appearance was that 
of a frustrated gnome. He seemed timid (<at first>), wore nose glasses 
from which a black ribbon dangled, and was no bigger than a jockey. 
Robinson asked Herford to escort him to the club's lavatory before 
they sat down for a highball and a game of cards. In the jakes, 
after Robbie and his crutches were properly stowed, Mr& Herford 
went to the adjoining facility. He had barely assumed his stance there 
when a fat fellow charged through the doorway. Without any regard for 
rest-room protocol, the hulking stranger almost knocked Herford off 
his pins. The artist-author said nothing, but stood to one side. He 
waited a long time. Nothing was said, nothing accomplished. The unrelieved 
stranger eventually turned away from the place of his- shall 
we dare say his Waterloo?- to go to the door.   Mr& Herford 
touched the fat man's arm. "Pardon me, sir. May I say that 
you have just demonstrated the truth of an old proverb- the younger 
Pliny's, if memory serves me- which, translated freely from the 
archaic Latin, says, 'The more haste, the less peed'".

Governor Alfred E& Smith was the official host at the children's 
party. United States Senator Royal S& Copeland was wearing 
the robes of Santa Claus and a great white beard; the Honorable 
Robert Wagner, Sr&, at that time a justice of the New York Supreme 
Court, was on the reception committee. I was in charge of the 
arrangements- which were soon enough disarranged.   I had had 
difficulties from the very first day. When, in my enthusiasm, I proposed 
the party, my city editor (who disliked the club and many of its 
members) tried to block my participation in the gala event. Even earlier 
than that he had resented the fact that I had been chosen to edit 
the club's <Reporter>.   City editor Victor Watson of the 
New York <American> was a man of brooding suspicions and mysterious 
shifts of mood. Mr& Hearst's telegraphic code word for Victor 
Watson was "fatboy". The staff saw in him the qualities of a 
Don Cossack, hence, as mentioned before, his nickname "the Hetman".

The Hetman's physical aspects were not those of a savage 
rider of the steppes. Indeed, he looked more like a well-fleshed 
lay brother of the Hospice of St& Bernard. Nor were his manners 
barbaric. He had a purring voice and poker player's immobility of features 
which somehow conveyed the feeling that he knew where all the 
bodies were buried. He was the son of a Scottish father and an American 
Jewish mother, long widowed, with whom he lived in a comfortable 
home in Flushing. He had worked in the newspaper business since he 
was nineteen years old, always for the Hearst service. From the very 
first he regarded himself as Mr& Hearst's disciple, defender, and 
afterward his prime minister, self-ordained.   It was said that 
the Hetman plotted to take over the entire Hearst newspaper empire 
one day by means of various coups: the destruction of editors who 
tried to halt his course, the unfrocking of publishers whose mistakes 
of judgment might be magnified in secret reports to Mr& Hearst. Whatever 
the Hetman's ambitions, his colleagues were kept ill at ease. 
Among the outstanding members of the Hearst cabinet whom he successfully 
opposed for a time were the great Arthur Brisbane, Bradford 
Merrill, S&S& Carvalho, and Colonel Van Hamm. He also disliked 
Runyon, for no good reason other than the fact that the Demon's 
talent was so marked as to put him well beyond the Hetman's say-so 
or his supervision.   Runyon, for his part, had a contemptuous 
regard for Mr& Watson. "He's a wrong-o", said Runyon, 
"and I wouldn't trust him as far as I could throw the Statue of 
Liberty".   Arthur "Bugs" Baer wrote to me just recently, 
"Vic wanted to die in harness, with his head towards the wagon. 
He supported his mother and his brother, who afterwards committed 
suicide. Watson told me that his brother always sent roses to his mother, 
blossoms bought with Vic's allowance to him. 'And would you 
believe it', Vic added, 'she likes him better than she does me. 
Why'"?   About the only time the Hetman seemed excited 
was 
when one of his own pet ideas was born. Then he would get to his feet, 
as though rising in honor of his own remarkable powers, and say almost 
invariably, "Gentlemen, this is an amazing story! It's bigger 
than the Armistice".   Some of the Hetman's "ideas" 
were dream-ridden, vaguely imparted, and at times preposterous. One 
day he assigned me to lay bare a "plot" by the Duponts to supply 
munitions to a wholly fictitious revolution he said was about to occur 
in Cuba. He said that his information was so secret that he would 
not be able to confide in me the origin of his pipeline tip.   "I 
can tell you this much", he said. It's bigger than the Armistice".

I worked for a day on this plainly ridiculous assignment 
and consulted several of my own well-informed sources. Then I spent 
the next two days at the baseball park and at Jack Doyle's pool 
parlors. When I returned to make my report, the Hetman did not remember 
having sent me on the secret mission. He was busy, he said, in 
having someone submit to a monkey-gland operation. And I was to go 
to work on that odd matter. I shall tell of it later on.   The 
Hetman had a strong liking for a story, any story which was to be had 
by means of much sleuthing or by roundabout methods. Most of my stories 
were obtained by simply seeking out the person who could give me 
the facts, and not as a rule by playing clever tricks.   One day 
I tired of following the Hetman's advice of "shadowing" and 
of the "ring-around-the-rosie" approach to a report that Enrico Caruso 
had pinched a lady's hip while visiting the Central Park monkey 
house. I explained my state of mind to artist Winsor McCay and 
to "Bugs" Baer. Mr& Baer obtained a supply of crepe hair and 
spirit-gum from an actor at the Friars. We fashioned beards, put 
them on, and reported to the Hetman at the city desk.   Mr& 
Baer had an auburn beard, like Longfellow's. Mr& McCay had on 
a sort of Emperor Maximilian beard and mustache. As for myself, I 
had on an enormous black "muff". This, together with a derby hat 
and horn-rim eyeglasses, gave me the appearance of a Russian nihilist.

"We are ready for your next mysterious assignment", said 
Mr& Baer to the Hetman. "Where to, sir"?   Mr& Watson 
did not have much humor in his make-up, but he managed a mirthless 
smile. Just then a reporter telephoned in from the Bronx to give 
the rewrite desk an account of a murder. The Hetman told me to take 
the story over the phone and to write it. While I was sitting at one 
of the rewrite telephones with my derby and my great beard, Arthur 
Brisbane whizzed in with some editorial copy in his hand. He paused 
for a moment to look at me, then went on to the city desk to deliver 
his "Today" column.   I thought it expedient to take off my 
derby, my glasses, and the beard; and also to change telephones. I 
managed to do this by the time the great A&B& returned to the place 
where he last had seen the fierce nihilist. He stood there staring 
with disbelief at the vacant desk. Then he wrinkled his huge brow 
and went slowly out of the room. He had a somewhat goggle-eyed expression. 
He had been "seeing things".   The Hetman's 
"ideas" 
for news stories or editorial campaigns were by no means always fruitless 
or lacking in merit. He campaigned successfully for the riddance 
of "Death Avenue" and also brought about the ending of pollution 
of metropolitan beaches by sewage. He exposed the bucket-shop racket 
with the able assistance of two excellent reporters, Nat Ferber 
and Carl Helm. In the conduct of these and many other campaigns, the 
Hetman proved to be a much abler journalist than his critics allowed.

It seems to me now, in a long backward glance, that many of 
the Hetman's conceits and odd actions- together with his grim posture 
when brandishing the hatchet in the name of Mr& Hearst- were 
keyed with the tragedy which was to close over him one day. Alone, 
rejected on every hand, divorced, and in financial trouble, he leaped 
from an eleventh-floor window of the Abbey Hotel in 1937.   One 
finds it difficult to pass censure on the lonely figure who waited 
for days for a saving word from his zealously served idol, W&R& 
Hearst. That word was withheld when the need of it seemed the measure 
of his despair. The unfinished note, written in pencil upon the back 
of a used envelope, and addressed to the coroner, makes one wonder 
about many things: "God forgive me for everything. <I cannot> 
**h"   Much to Damon Runyon's amazement, as well as my own, 
I got along splendidly with the Hetman; that is, until I became 
an editor, hence, in his eyes, a rival. Not long after Colonel Van 
Hamm had foisted me on the Watson staff I received a salary raise 
and a contract on the Hetman's recommendation. During the next years 
he gave me the second of the five contracts I would sign with the 
Hearst Service. It was a somewhat unusual thing for a reporter to 
have a contract in those days before the epidemic of syndicated columnists. 
I would like to believe that my ability warranted this advancement. 
Somehow I think that Watson paid more attention to me than he 
otherwise might have because his foe, Colonel Van Hamm, wouldn't 
touch me with a ten-foot blue pencil.   I remember one day when 
Mr& Hearst (and I never knew why <he> liked me, either) sent the 
Hetman a telegram: "Please find some more reporters like that 
young man from Denver". Watson showed this wire to Colonel Van Hamm. 
The colonel grunted, then made a remark which might be construed 
in either of two ways. "Don't bother to look any further. We already 
<have> the only one of its kind".   The Hetman did have 
friends, but they were mostly outside the newspaper profession. Sergeant 
Mike Donaldson, Congressional Medal of Honor soldier, was 
one of them. Dr& Menas S& Gregory was another. I used to go 
with Watson to call on the eminent neurologist at his apartment, to sit 
among the doctor's excellent collection of statues, paintings, and 
books and drink Oriental coffee while Watson seemed to thaw out and 
become almost affable.   There was one time, however, when his 
face clouded and he suddenly blurted, "Why did my brother commit 
suicide"?   I cannot remember Dr& Gregory's reply, if, 
indeed, he made one. 
If she were not at home, Mama would see to it that a fresh white rose 
was there. Sometimes, Mrs& Coolidge would close herself in the 
Green Suite on the second floor, and play the piano she had brought 
to the White House. Mama knew she was playing her son's favorite 
pieces and feeling close to him, and did not disturb her.   All 
the rest of the days in the White House would be shadowed by the tragic 
loss, even though the President tried harder than ever to make his 
little dry jokes and to tease the people around him.   A little 
boy came to give the President his personal condolences, and the President 
gave word that any little boy who wanted to see him was to be 
shown in. Backstairs, the maids cried a little over that, and the standing 
invitation was not mentioned to Mrs& Coolidge.   The 
President was even more generous with the First Lady than he had been 
before the tragedy. He would bring her boxes of candy and other presents 
to coax a smile to her lips.   He brought her shawls. Dresses 
were short in the days of Mrs& Coolidge, and Spanish shawls 
were thrown over them. He got her dozens of them. One shawl was so 
tremendous that she could not wear it, so she draped it over the banister 
on the second floor, and it hung over the stairway. The President 
used to look at it with a ghost of a smile.   Mrs& Coolidge 
spent more time in her bedroom among her doll collection. She kept 
the dolls on the Lincoln bed. At night, when Mama would turn back the 
covers, she would have to take all the dolls off the bed and place 
them elsewhere for the night. Mama always felt that the collection symbolized 
Mrs& Coolidge's wish for a little girl.   Among the 
dolls was one that meant very much to the First Lady, who would pick 
it up and look at it often. It had a tiny envelope tied to its wrist. 
An accompanying sympathetic letter explained that inside the envelope 
was a name for Mrs& Coolidge's first granddaughter. Mama 
knew this doll was meant to help Mrs& Coolidge overcome her grief 
by turning her eyes to the future. The name inside the envelope was "Cynthia".

The Coolidges' life, after the death of their 
son, was quieter than ever. John was away at school most of the time. 
Mrs& Coolidge would knit, and the President would sit reading, 
or playing with the many pets around them.   Now and then, the 
President would call for "Little Jack, Master of the Hounds", 
which was his nickname for a messenger who had worked in the White House 
since Teddy Roosevelt's administration, and discuss the welfare 
of some one of the animals. It was part of Little Jack's work 
to look after the dogs.   One White House dog was immortalized 
in a painting. That was Rob Roy, who posed with Mrs& Coolidge 
for the portrait by Howard Chandler Christy. To get him to pose, 
Mrs& Coolidge would feed him candy, so he enjoyed the portrait sessions 
as well as she did.   I would like to straighten out a misconception 
about the dress Mrs& Coolidge is wearing in this painting. 
It is not the same dress as the one on her manikin in the Smithsonian. 
People think the dress in the picture was lengthened by an artist 
much later on. This is not true. The dress in the painting is a 
bright red, with rhinestones forming a spray on the right side. There 
is a long train flowing from the shoulders.   Mrs& Coolidge 
gave Mama this dress for me, and I wore it many times. I still have 
the dress, and I hope to give it to the Smithsonian Institution 
as a memento, or, as I more fondly hope, to present it to a museum containing 
articles showing the daily lives of the Presidents- if I 
can get it organized.   But to get back to the Coolidge household, 
Mrs& Coolidge so obviously loved dogs, that the public sent her 
more dogs- Calamity Jane, Timmy, and Blackberry. The last two 
were a red and a black chow. Rob Roy remained boss of all the dogs. 
He showed them what to do, and taught them how to keep the maids around 
the White House in a state of terror.   The dogs would run 
through the halls after him like a burst of bullets, and all the maids 
would run for cover. Mama didn't know what to do- whether to tell 
on Rob Roy or not- since she had the ear of Mrs& Coolidge 
more than the other maids. But she was afraid the First Lady would 
not understand, because Rob Roy was a perfect angel with the First 
Family.   Every day, when the President took his nap, Rob Roy 
would stretch out on the window seat near him, like a perfect gentleman, 
and stare thoughtfully out the window, or he would take a little 
nap himself. He would not make a sound until the President had wakened 
and left for the office; then he would bark to let everyone know 
the coast was clear. His signal was for the other dogs to come running, 
but it was also the signal for Mama and the other maids to watch 
out.   Rob Roy was self-appointed to accompany the President to 
his office every morning. Rob Roy was well aware of the importance 
of this mission, and he would walk in front of the President, looking 
neither to the right nor to the left.   At dinner, lunch, or breakfast, 
the President would call out, "Supper"!- he called 
all meals supper- after the butler had announced the meal. All the 
dogs would dash to get on the elevator with the President and go to 
the dining room. They would all lie around on the rug during the meal, 
a very pretty sight as Rob Roy, Prudence, and Calamity Jane were 
all snow-white.   When Prudence and Blackberry were too young 
to be trusted in the dining room, they were tied to the radiator with 
their leashes, and they would cry. Mama tried to talk to them and keep 
them quiet while she tidied up the sitting room before the First 
Family returned.   Finally, Mama did mention to Mrs& Coolidge 
that she felt sorry for the little dogs, and then Mrs& Coolidge 
decided to leave the radio on for them while she was gone, even though 
her husband disapproved of the waste of electricity.   Mama was 
now the first maid to Mrs& Coolidge, because Catherine, the previous 
first maid, had become ill and died. Mrs& Coolidge chose Mama 
in her place. It was a high mark for Mama.   Every First 
Family seems to have one couple upon whom it relies for true friendship. 
For the Coolidges, it was Mr& and Mrs& Frank W& Stearns 
of Boston, Massachusetts, owners of a large department store. They 
seemed to be at the White House half the time. The butlers were 
amused because when the Stearns were there, the President would say 
grace at breakfast. If the Stearns were not there, grace would be omitted.

Speaking of breakfast, the President inaugurated a new 
custom- that of conducting business at the breakfast table. The word 
was that this too was part of an economy move on his part. A new bill 
had been passed under Harding that designated the Government, rather 
than the President, as the tab-lifter for official meals. So the 
President would make a hearty breakfast official by inviting Government 
officials to attend.   He caused a lot of talk when he also 
chose the breakfast hour to have the barber come in and trim his hair 
while he ate. Mama said that if Presidents were supposed to be colorful, 
Mr& Coolidge certainly made a good president. He knew exactly 
how to be colorful!   The favorite guest of the house, as 
far as the staff was concerned, was Mr& Wrigley, the chewing gum king. 
The White House had chewing gum until it could chew no more, and 
every Christmas, Mr& Wrigley sent the President a check for $100, 
to be divided among all the help. You can imagine that he got pretty 
good service.   Another good friend of the Coolidges' was 
George B& Harvey, who was the Ambassador to Great Britain from 
1921 to 1923. He had been a friend of the Hardings, and continued 
to be invited by the Coolidges.   The first royalty whom Mama 
ever waited on in the White House was Queen Marie of Rumania, 
who came to a State dinner given in her honor on October 21, 1926. 
She was not an overnight guest in the White House, but Mr& Ike 
Hoover, the chief usher, had Mama check her fur coat when she came 
in, and take care of her needs. Mama said she was one of the prettiest 
ladies she had ever seen.   Mama was very patriotic, and one of 
the duties she was proudest of was repairing the edges of the flag that 
flew above the White House. Actually, two flags were used at the 
mansion- a small one on rainy days, and a big one on bright days. 
The wool would become frazzled around the edges from blowing in the wind, 
and Mama would mend it. She would often go up on the roof to see 
the attendant take down the flag in the evening. She used to tell me, 
"When I stand there and look at the flag blowing this way and that 
way, I have the wonderful, safe feeling that Americans are protected 
no matter which way the wind blows".   Even when Mrs& 
Coolidge was in mourning for her son, she reached out to help other people 
in trouble. One person she helped was my brother. Mama had told 
her how Emmett's lungs had been affected when he was gassed in the 
war. He was in and out of Mount Alto Hospital for veterans any number 
of times.   Taking a personal interest, she had the doctor 
assigned to the White House, Dr& James Coupal, look Emmett over. 
As a result, he was sent to a hospital in Arizona until his health 
improved enough for him to come back to Washington to work in the 
Government service. But again, there was danger that his lungs would 
suffer in the muggy Washington weather, and he had to return to the 
dry climate of the West to live and work.   When Mrs& Coolidge 
was in mourning, she did not wear black. She wore grey every day, 
and white every evening. Mama knew that she was out of mourning when 
she finally wore bright colors. The President helped her a lot by selecting 
some lovely colored dresses to get her started. She opened the 
boxes with a tear in her eye and a sad smile on her face.   On 
the social side, the chore Mama had at the formal receptions at the 
White House thrilled her the most. It was her job to stand at the 
foot of the stairs, and, just as the First Lady stepped off the last 
tread, Mama would straighten out her long train before she marched to 
the Blue Room to greet her guests with the President. Mama would 
enjoy the sight of the famous guests as much as anyone, and would note 
a gown here and there to tell me about that night.   One night, 
Mama came home practically in a state of shock. She had stood at the 
bottom of the stairs, as usual, when Mrs& Coolidge came down, in 
the same dress that is now in the Smithsonian, to greet her guests. 
Mama stooped down to fix the train, but there was no train there! She 
reached and reached around the dress, but there was nothing there. 
She looked up and saw that, without knowing it, Mrs& Coolidge was 
holding it aloft. Mrs& Coolidge looked down, saw Mama's horrified 
expression and quickly let the whole thing fall to the floor. Mama 
swirled the train in place, and not a step was lost.   The Coolidges 
did not always live at the White House during the Presidency.

Impressive as this enumeration is, it barely hints at the diverse 
perceptions of Jews, collectively or individually, that have been 
attested by their Gentile environment. It is reasonable to affirm 
two propositions: <Jews have been perceived by non-Jews as all things 
to all men; some Jews have in fact been all things to all men>. 
In the arena of power Jews have at one time or another been somebody's 
ally; they have observed correct neutrality; they have been 
someone's enemy. In the market place Jews have in fact under various 
circumstances been valued customers and suppliers, or clannish monopolists 
and cutthroat competitors. And so on through the roles referred 
to in the previous paragraph. Diversity of perception, yes; diversity 
of fact, yes.   But the two do not invariably or even 
typically coincide. The "conventional" image of a particular time 
and place is not necessarily congruent with the image of the facts as 
established over the years by scholarly and scientific research. Conventional 
images of Jews have this in common with all perceptions of 
a configuration in which one feature is held constant: images can be 
both true and false.   The genuinely interesting question, then, 
becomes: What factors determine the degree of realism or distortion 
in conventional images of Jews? The working test of "the facts" 
must always be the best available description obtainable from scholars 
and scientists who have applied their methods of investigation 
to relevant situations. Granted, such "functional" images are subject 
to human error; they are self-correcting in the sense that they 
are subject to disciplined procedures that check and recheck against 
error.   In accounting for realism or distortion two sets of factors 
can be usefully distinguished: current intelligence; predispositions 
regarding intelligence. General Grant may have been the victim 
of false information in the instance reported in this book; if so, 
he would not be the first or last commanding officer who has succumbed 
to bad information and dubious estimates of the future. But General 
Grant may have been self-victimized. He may have entered the situation 
with predispositions that prepared him to act uncritically in the 
press of affairs.   Predispositions, in turn, fall conveniently 
into two categories for purposes of analysis. To some extent predispositions 
are shaped by exposure to group environments. In some measure 
they depend upon the structure of individual personality. The anti-Semitism 
of Hitler owed something to his exposure to the ideology of 
Lueger's politically successful Christian socialist movement in Vienna. 
But millions of human beings were exposed to Lueger's propaganda 
and record. After allowing for group exposures, it is apparent 
that other factors must be considered if we are to comprehend fanaticism. 
These are personality factors; they include harmonies and conflicts 
within the whole man, and mechanisms whereby inner components are 
more or less smoothly met. Modern psychiatric knowledge provides us 
with many keys to unlock the significance of behavior of the kind.

The foregoing factors are pertinent to the analysis of perceptual 
images and the broad conditions under which they achieve realism or 
fall short of it. Undoubtedly one merit of the vast panorama of Gentile 
conceptions of the Jew unfolded in the present anthology is that 
it provides a formidable body of material that invites critical examination 
in terms of reality. Many selections are themselves convincing 
contributions to this appraisal.   Undoubtedly, however, the significance 
of the volume is greater than the foregoing paragraphs suggest. 
Speaking as a non-Jew I believe that its primary contribution is 
in the realm of future policy. Since we can neither undo nor redo the 
past, we are limited to the events of today and tomorrow. In this 
domain the simple fact of coexistence in the same local, national, and 
world community is enough to guarantee that we cannot refrain from having 
some effect, large or small, upon Gentile-Jewish relations. What 
shall these effects be?   I am deliberately raising the policy 
problems involved in Gentile-Jewish relations. Comprehensive examination 
of any policy question calls for the performance of the intellectual 
tasks inseparable from any problem-solving method. The tasks 
are briefly indicated by these questions: What are my goals in Gentile-Jewish 
relations? What are the historical trends in this country 
and abroad in the extent to which these goals are effectively realized? 
What factors condition the degree of realization at various 
times and places? What is the probable course of future developments? 
What policies if adopted and applied in various circumstances will 
increase the likelihood that future events will coincide with desired 
events and do so at least cost in terms of all human values?

It is beyond the province of this epilogue to cover policy questions 
of such depth and range. The discussion is therefore limited to a 
suggested procedure for realizing at least some of the potential importance 
of this volume for future policy. As a groundwork for the proposal 
I give some attention to the first task enumerated above, the clarification 
of goal.   My reply is that I associate myself with 
all those who affirm that Gentile-Jewish relations should contribute 
to the theory and practice of human dignity. The basic goal finds partial 
expression in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, a statement 
initiated and endorsed by individuals and organizations of many 
religious and philosophical traditions.   Within this frame of 
reference policies appropriate to claims advanced in the name of the 
Jews depend upon which Jewish identity is involved, as well as upon 
the nature of the claim, the characteristics of the claimant, the justifications 
proposed, and the predispositions of the community decision 
makers who are called upon to act. If Jews are identified as a religious 
body in a controversy that comes before a national or international 
tribunal, it is obviously compatible with the goal of human dignity 
to protect freedom of worship. When decision makers act within this 
frame they determine whether a claim put forward in the name of religion 
is to be accepted by the larger community as appropriate to religion. 
Since the recognition of Israel as a nation state, claims are made 
in many cases which identify the claimant as a member of the new body 
politic. Community decision makers must make up their minds whether 
a claim is acceptable to the larger community in terms of prevailing 
expectations regarding members of nation states. In free countries 
many controversies involve self-styled Jews who use the symbol in asserting 
a vaguely "cultural" rather than religious or political identity. 
The decision maker who acts for the community as a whole must 
decide whether the objectives pursued and the methods used are appropriate 
to public policy regarding cultural groups.   We know that 
much is made of the multiplicity and ambiguity of the identities that 
cluster around the key symbol of the Jew. Many public and private controversies 
will undoubtedly continue to reflect these confusions in 
the mind and usage of Gentile and Jew. However, in the context of legal 
and civic policy, these controversies are less than novel. They 
involve similar uncertainties regarding the multiple identities of any 
number of non-Jewish groups. So far as the existing body of formal 
principle and procedure is concerned, categorical novelties are not 
to be anticipated in Jewish-Gentile relationships; claims are properly 
disposed of according to norms common to all parties.   It 
is not implied that formal principles and procedures are so firmly entrenched 
within the public order of the world community or even of free 
commonwealths that they will control in all circumstances involving Jews 
and Gentiles during coming years. Social process is always anchored 
in past predisposition; but it is perennially restructured in situations 
where anchors are dragged or lost. In conformance with the 
maximization principle we affirm that Gentile-Jewish relations will 
be harmonious or inharmonious to the degree that one relation or the 
other is expected by the active participants to yield the greatest net 
advantage, taking all value outcomes and effects into consideration. 
It is not difficult to anticipate circumstances in which negative tensions 
will cumulate; for instance, imagine the situation if Israel 
ever joins an enemy coalition. The formal position of Americans who 
identify themselves with one or more of the several identities of the 
Jewish symbol is already clear; the future weight of informal factors 
cannot be so easily assessed.   When we consider the disorganized 
state of the world community, and the legacy of predispositions adversely 
directed against all who are identified as Jews, it is obvious 
that the struggle for the minds and muscles of men needs to be prosecuted 
with increasing vigor and skill. During moments of intense crisis 
the responsibility of political leaders is overwhelming. But their 
freedom of policy is limited by the pattern of predisposition with which 
they and the people around them enter the crisis. At such critical 
moments predispositions favorable to human dignity most obviously "pay 
off". By the same test predispositions destructive of human personality 
exercise their most sinister impact, with the result that men 
of good will are often trapped and nullified.   Among measures 
in anticipation of crisis are plans to inject into the turmoil as assistants 
of key decision makers qualified persons who are cognizant of 
the corrosive effect of crisis upon personal relationships and are also 
able to raise calm and realistic voices when overburdened leaders near 
the limit of self-control. We are learning how to do these things 
in some of the vast organized structures of modern society; the process 
can be accelerated.   A truism is that the time to prepare 
for the worst is when times are best. During intercrisis periods the 
educational facilities of the community have the possibility of remolding 
the perspectives and altering the behavior of vast numbers of human 
beings of every age and condition. As more men and women are made capable 
of living up to the challenge of decency the chances are improved 
that the pattern of predisposition prevailing in positions of strength 
in future crises can be favorably affected.   Now an abiding 
difficulty of paragraphs like the foregoing is that they appear to preach; 
and in contemporary society we often complain of too much reaffirmation 
of the goodness of the good. In any case I do not intend to 
let the present occasion pass without dealing more directly with the 
problem of implementing good intentions. I assume that the number of 
readers of this anthology who regard themselves as morally perfect is 
small, and that most readers are willing to consider procedures by which 
they may gain more insight into themselves and better understanding 
of others. Properly used, the present book is an excellent instrument 
of enlightenment.   Let us not confuse the issue by labeling 
the objective or the method "psychoanalytic", for this is a well established 
term of art for the specific ideas and procedures initiated 
by Sigmund Freud and his followers for the study and treatment of disordered 
personalities. The traditional method proceeds by the technique 
of free association, punctuated by interpretations proposed by the 
psychoanalytic interviewer.   What we have in mind does have 
something in common with the goals of psychoanalysis and with the methods 
by which they are sought. For what we propose, however, a psychoanalyst 
is not necessary, even though one aim is to enable the reader to 
get beneath his own defenses- his defenses of himself to himself. 
For this purpose a degree of intellectual and emotional involvement is 
necessary; but involvement needs to be accompanied by a special frame 
of mind.   The relatively long and often colorful selections 
in this anthology enable the reader to become genuinely absorbed in 
what is said, whether he responds with anger or applause. But simple 
involvement is not enough; self-discovery calls for an open, permissive, 
inquiring posture of self-observation.   The symposium provides 
an opportunity to confront the self with specific statements which 
were made at particular times by identifiable communicators who were 
addressing definite audiences- and throughout several hundred pages 
everyone is talking about the same key symbol of identification.

An advantage of being exposed to such specificity about an important 
and recurring feature of social reality is that it can be taken advantage 
of by the reader to examine covert as well as overt resonances 
within himself, resonances triggered by explicit symbols clustering around 
the central figure of the Jew.

Two facets of this aspect of the literary process have special 
significance for our time. One, a reservation on the point I have just 
made, is the phenomenon of pseudo-thinking, pseudo-feeling, and pseudo-willing, 
which Fromm discussed in <The Escape from Freedom>. 
In essence this involves grounding one's thought and emotion in the 
values and experience of others, rather than in one's own values 
and experience. There is a risk that instead of teaching a person how 
to be himself, 
reading fiction and drama may teach him how to be somebody 
else. Clearly what the person brings to the reading is important. 
Moreover, if the critic instructs his audience in <what> to see in 
a work, he is contributing to this pseudo-thinking; if he instructs 
them in <how> to evaluate a work, he is helping them to achieve their 
own identity.   The second timely part of this sketch of literature 
and the search for identity has to do with the difference between 
good and enduring literary works and the ephemeral mass culture products 
of today. In the range and variety of characters who, in their 
literary lives, get along all right with life styles one never imagined 
possible, there is an implicit lesson in differentiation. The reader, 
observing this process, might ask "why not be different"? and 
find in the answer a license to be a variant of the human species. 
The observer of television or other products for a mass audience has 
only a permit to be, like the models he sees, even more like everybody 
else. And this, I think, holds for values as well as life styles. 
One would need to test this proposition carefully; after all, the large 
(and probably unreliable) <Reader's Digest> literature on the 
"most unforgettable character I ever met" deals with village grocers, 
country doctors, favorite if illiterate aunts, and so forth. Scientists 
often turn out to be idiosyncratic, too. But still, the proposition 
is worth examination.   It is possible that the study 
of literature affects the conscience, the morality, the sensitivity to 
some code of "right" and "wrong". I do not know that this is 
true; both Flu^gel and Ranyard West deal with the development 
and nature of conscience, as do such theologians as Niebuhr and Buber. 
It forms the core of many, perhaps most, problems of psychotherapy. 
I am not aware of great attention by any of these authors or by the 
psychotherapeutic profession to the role of literary study in the development 
of conscience- most of their attention is to a pre-literate 
period of life, or, for the theologians of course, to the influence 
of religion.   Still, it would be surprising if what one reads did 
not contribute to one's ideas of right and wrong; certainly the 
awakened alarm over the comic books and the continuous concern over prurient 
literature indicate some peripheral aspects of this influence. 
Probably the most important thing to focus on is not the development 
of conscience, which may well be almost beyond the reach of literature, 
but the contents of conscience, the code which is imparted to the developed 
or immature conscience available. This is in large part a code 
of behavior and a glossary of values: what is it that people do and 
should do and how one should regard it. In a small way this is illustrated 
by the nineteenth-century novelist who argued for the powerful 
influence of literature as a teacher of society and who illustrated 
this with the way a girl learned to meet her lover, how to behave, how 
to think about this new experience, how to exercise restraint.

Literature may be said to give people a sense of purpose, dedication, 
mission, significance. This, no doubt, is part of what Gilbert Seldes 
implies when he says of the arts, "They give form and meaning 
to life which might otherwise seem shapeless and without sense". Men 
seem almost universally to want a sense of function, that is, a feeling 
that their existence makes a difference to someone, living or unborn, 
close and immediate or generalized. Feeling useless seems generally 
to be an unpleasant sensation. A need so deeply planted, asking 
for direction, so to speak, is likely to be gratified by the vivid examples 
and heroic proportions of literature. The terms "renewal" 
and "refreshed", which often come up in aesthetic discussion, seem 
partly to derive their import from the "renewal" of purpose and 
a "refreshed" sense of significance a person may receive from poetry, 
drama, and fiction. The notion of "inspiration" is somehow cognate 
to this feeling. How literature does this, or for whom, is certainly 
not clear, but the content, form, and language of the "message", 
as well as the source, would all play differentiated parts in giving 
and molding a sense of purpose.   One of the most salient features 
of literary value has been deemed to be its influence upon and 
organization of emotion. Let us differentiate a few of these ideas. The 
Aristotelian notion of catharsis, the purging of emotion, is a persistent 
and viable one. The idea here is one of <discharge> but this 
must stand in opposition to a second view, Plato's notion of the 
<arousal> of emotion. A third idea is that artistic literature serves 
to <reduce emotional conflicts,> giving a sense of serenity and 
calm to individuals. This is given some expression in Beardsley's 
notion of harmony and the resolution of indecision. A fourth view is 
the transformation of emotion, as in Housman's fine phrase on the 
arts: they "transform and beautify our inner nature". It is possible 
that the idea of <enrichment> of emotion is a fifth idea. F&S&C& 
Northrop, in his discussion of the "Functions and Future 
of Poetry", suggests this: "One of the things which makes 
our lives drab and empty and which leaves us, at the end of the day, 
fatigued and deflated spiritually is the pressure of the taxing, practical, 
utilitarian concern of common-sense objects. If art is to release 
us from these postulated things [things we must think symbolically 
about] and bring us back to the ineffable beauty and richness of the 
aesthetic component of reality in its immediacy, it must sever its connection 
with these common sense entities". I take the central meaning 
here to be the contrast between the drab empty quality of life without 
literature and a life enriched by it. Richards' view of the aesthetic 
experience might constitute a sixth variety: for him it constitutes, 
in part, the <organization of impulses>.   A sketch of 
the emotional value of the study of literature would have to take account 
of all of these. But there is one in particular which, it seems 
to me, deserves special attention. In the wide range of experiences 
common to our earth-bound race none is more difficult to manage, more 
troublesome, and more enduring in its effects than the control of love 
and hate. The study of literature contributes to this control in a curious 
way. William Wimsatt and Cleanth Brooks, it seems to me, have 
a penetrating insight into the way in which this control is effected: 
"For if we say poetry is to talk of beauty and love (and yet not 
aim at exciting erotic emotion or even an emotion of Platonic esteem) 
and if it is to talk of anger and murder (and yet not aim at arousing 
anger and indignation)- then it may be that the poetic way of dealing 
with these emotions will not be any kind of intensification, compounding, 
or magnification, or any direct assault upon the affections 
at all. Something indirect, mixed, reconciling, tensional might well 
be the strategem, the devious technique by which a poet indulged in all 
kinds of talk about love and anger and even in something like "expressions" 
of these emotions, without aiming at their incitement or 
even uttering anything that essentially involves their incitement". 
The rehearsal through literature of emotional life under controlled conditions 
may be a most valuable human experience. Here I do not mean 
catharsis, the discharge of emotion. I mean something more like Freud's 
concept of the utility of "play" to a small child: he plays 
"house" or "doctor" or "fireman" as a way of mastering 
slightly frightening experiences, reliving them imaginatively until they 
are under control.   There is a second feature of the influences 
of literature, good literature, on emotional life which may have 
some special value for our time. In B& M& Spinley's portrayal 
of the underprivileged and undereducated youth of London, a salient 
finding was the inability to postpone gratification, a need to satisfy 
impulses immediately without the pleasure of anticipation or of savoring 
the experience. Perhaps it is only an analogy, but one of the most 
obvious differences between cheap fiction and fiction of an enduring 
quality is the development of a theme or story with leisure and anticipation. 
Anyone who has watched children develop a taste for literature 
will understand what I mean. It is at least possible that the capacity 
to postpone gratification is developed as well as expressed in 
a continuous and guided exposure to great literature.   In any 
inquiry into the way in which great literature affects the emotions, particularly 
with respect to the sense of harmony, or relief of tension, 
or sense of "a transformed inner nature" which may occur, a most 
careful exploration of the particular feature of the experience which 
produces the effect would be required. In the calm which follows the 
reading of a poem, for example, is the effect produced by the enforced 
quiet, by the musical quality of words and rhythm, by the sentiments 
or sense of the poem, by the associations with earlier readings, if it 
is familiar, by the boost to the self-esteem for the semi-literate, 
by 
the diversion of attention, by the sense of security in a legitimized 
withdrawal, by a kind license for some variety of fantasy life regarded 
as forbidden, or by half-conscious ideas about the magical power of 
words? These are, if the research is done with subtlety and skill, 
researchable topics, but the research is missing.   One of the 
most frequent views of the value of literature is the education of sensibility 
that it is thought to provide. Sensibility is a vague word, 
covering an area of meaning rather than any precise talent, quality, 
or skill. Among other things it means perception, discrimination, sensitivity 
to subtle differences. Both the extent to which this is true 
and the limits of the field of perceptual skill involved should be acknowledged. 
Its truth is illustrated by the skill, sensitivity, and general 
expertise of the English professor with whom one attends the theatre. 
The limits are suggested by an imaginary experiment: contrast 
the perceptual skill of English professors with that of their colleagues 
in discriminating among motor cars, political candidates, or female 
beauty. Along these lines, the particular point that sensitivity 
in literature leads to sensitivity in human relations would require more 
proof than I have seen. In a symposium and general exploration of 
the field of <Person Perception and Interpersonal Behavior> the 
discussion does not touch upon this aspect of the subject, with one 
possible exception; Solomon Asch shows the transcultural stability 
of metaphors based on sensation (hot, sweet, bitter, etc&) dealing 
with personal qualities of human beings and events. But to go from here 
to the belief that those more sensitive to metaphor and language will 
also be more sensitive to personal differences is too great an inferential 
leap.   I would say, too, that the study of literature 
tends to give a person what I shall call <depth>. I use this term 
to mean three things: a search for the human significance of an event 
or state of affairs, a tendency to look at wholes rather than parts, 
and a tendency to respond to these events and wholes with feeling. It 
is the obverse of triviality, shallowness, emotional anaesthesia. I 
think these attributes cluster, but I have no evidence. In fact, I 
can only say this seems to me to follow from a wide, continuous, and 
properly guided exposure to literary art.

THE late R& G& Collingwood, a philosopher whose work 
has proved helpful to many students of literature, once wrote "We 
are all, though many of us are snobbish enough to wish to deny it, in 
far closer sympathy with the art of the music-hall and picture-palace 
than with Chaucer and Cimabue, or even Shakespeare and Titian. By 
an effort of historical sympathy we can cast our minds back into the 
art of a remote past or an alien present, and enjoy the carvings of 
cavemen and Japanese colour-prints; but the possibility of this 
effort 
is bound up with that development of historical thought which is the 
greatest achievement of our civilization in the last two centuries, 
and it is utterly impossible to people in whom this development has not 
taken place. The natural and primary aesthetic attitude is to enjoy 
contemporary art, to despise and dislike the art of the recent past, 
and wholly to ignore everything else".   One might argue that 
the ultimate purpose of literary scholarship is to correct this spontaneous 
provincialism that is likely to obscure the horizons of the general 
public, of the newspaper critic, and of the creative artist himself. 
There results a study of literature freed from the tyranny of the 
contemporary. Such study may take many forms. The study of ideas in 
literature is one of these. Of course, it goes without saying that no 
student of ideas can justifiably ignore the contemporary scene. He will 
frequently return to it. The continuities, contrasts, and similarities 
discernible when past and present are surveyed together are inexhaustible 
and the one is often understood through the other.   When 
we assert the value of such study, we find ourselves committed to 
an important assumption. Most students of literature, whether they call 
themselves scholars or critics, are ready to argue that it is possible 
to understand literary works as well as to enjoy them. Many will 
add that we may find our enjoyment heightened by our understanding. This 
understanding, of course, may in its turn take many forms and some 
of these- especially those most interesting to the student of comparative 
literature- are essentially historical. But the historian of 
literature need not confine his attention to biography or to stylistic 
questions of form, "texture", or technique. He may also consider 
ideas. It is true that this distinction between style and idea often 
approaches the arbitrary since in the end we must admit that style and 
content frequently influence or interpenetrate one another and sometimes 
appear as expressions of the same insight. But, in general, we 
may argue that the student can direct the primary emphasis of his attention 
toward one or the other.   At this point a working definition 
of <idea> is in order, although our first definition will have to 
be qualified somewhat as we proceed. The term <idea> refers to our 
more reflective or thoughtful consciousness as opposed to the immediacies 
of sensuous or emotional experience. It is through such reflection 
that literature approaches philosophy. An idea, let us say, may be 
roughtly defined as a theme or topic with which our reflection may 
be concerned. In this essay, we are, 
along with most historians, interested 
in the more general or more inclusive ideas, that are so to speak 
"writ large" in history of literature where they recur continually. 
Outstanding among these is the idea of human nature itself, including 
the many definitions that have been advanced over the centuries; 
also secondary notions such as the perfectibility of man, the depravity 
of man, and the dignity of man. One might, indeed, argue that the 
history of ideas, in so far as it includes the literatures, must center 
on characterizations of human nature and that the great periods of 
literary achievement may be distinguished from one another by reference 
to the images of human nature that they succeed in fashioning.

We need not, to be sure, expect to find such ideas in every piece of 
literature. An idea, of the sort that we have in mind, although of 
necessity readily available to imagination, is more general in connotation 
than most poetic or literary images, especially those appearing in 
lyric poems that seek to capture a moment of personal experience. Thus 
Burns's "<My love is like a red, red rose>" and Hopkins' 
"<The thunder-purple sea-beach, plumed purple of 
thunder>" although clearly intelligible in content, hardly present 
ideas of the sort with which we are here concerned. On the other hand, 
Arnold's "<The unplumbed, salt, estranging sea>", 
taken in its context, certainly does so.   Understanding a work 
of art involves recognition of the ideas that it reflects or embodies. 
Thus the student of literature may sometimes find it helpful to classify 
a poem or an essay as being in idea or in ideal content or subject 
matter typical or atypical of its period. Again, he may discover embodied 
within its texture a theme or idea that has been presented elsewhere 
and at other times in various ways. Our understanding will very 
probably require both these commentaries. Very likely it will also include 
a recognition that the work we are reading reflects or "belongs 
to" some way of thought labelled as a "school" or an "-~ism", 
i&e& a complex or "syndrome" of ideas occurring together 
with sufficient prominence to warrant identification. Thus ideas like 
"grace", "salvation", and "providence" cluster together 
in traditional Christianity. Usually the work studied offers us a special 
or even an individualized rendering or treatment of the ideas in 
question, so that the student finds it necessary to distinguish carefully 
between the several expressions of an "-~ism" or mode of thought. 
Accordingly we may speak of the Platonism peculiar to Shelley's 
poems or the type of Stoicism present in Henley's "Invictus", 
and we may find that describing such Platonism or such Stoicism 
and contrasting each with other expressions of the same attitude or 
mode of thought is a difficult and challenging enterprise. After all, 
Shelley is no "orthodox" or Hellenic Platonist, and even his 
"romantic" Platonism can be distinguished from that of his contemporaries. 
Again, Henley's attitude of defiance which colors his ideal 
of self-mastery is far from characteristic of a Stoic thinker like 
Marcus Aurelius, whose gentle acquiescence is almost Christian, 
comparable to the patience expressed in Milton's sonnet on his own 
blindness.   In recent years, we have come increasingly to recognize 
that ideas have a history and that not the least important chapters 
of this history have to do with thematic or conceptual aspects of literature 
and the arts, although these aspects should be studied in conjunction 
with the history of philosophy, of religion, and of the sciences. 
When these fields are surveyed together, important patterns of 
relationship emerge indicating a vast community of reciprocal influence, 
a continuity of thought and expression including many traditions, primarily 
literary, religious, and philosophical, but frequently including 
contact with the fine arts and even, to some extent, with science.

Here we may observe that at least one modern philosophy of history 
is built on the assumption that ideas are the primary objectives 
of the historian's research. Let us quote once more from R& G& 
Collingwood: "History is properly concerned with the actions 
of human beings **h Regarded from the outside, an action is an event 
or series of events occurring in the physical world; regarded from the 
inside, it is the carrying into action of a certain thought **h The 
historian's business is to penetrate to the inside of the actions 
with which he is dealing and reconstruct or rather rethink the thoughts 
which constituted them. It is a characteristic of thoughts that **h 
in re-thinking them we come, <ipso facto>, to understand why they were 
thought". Such an understanding, although it must seek to be sympathetic, 
is not a matter of intuition. "History has this in common 
with every other science: that the historian is not allowed to claim 
any single piece of knowledge, except where he can justify his claim 
by exhibiting to himself in the first place, and secondly to any one 
else who is both able and willing to follow his demonstration, the grounds 
upon which it is based. This is what was meant, above, by describing 
history as inferential. The knowledge in virtue of which a man 
is an historian is a knowledge of what the evidence at his disposal proves 
about certain events". It is obvious that the historian who seeks 
to recapture the ideas that have motivated human behavior throughout 
a given period will find the art and literature of that age one of 
his central and major concerns, by no means a mere supplement or adjunct 
of significant historical research.   The student of ideas and 
their place in history will always be concerned with the patterns of 
transition, which are at the same time patterns of transformation, whereby 
ideas pass from one area of activity to another. Let us survey 
for a moment the development of modern thought- turning our attention 
from the Reformation toward the revolutionary and romantic movements 
that follow and dwelling finally on more recent decades. We may thus 
trace the notion of individual autonomy from its manifestation in religious 
practice and theological reflection through practical politics 
and political theory into literature and the arts. Finally we may note 
that the idea appears in educational theory where its influence is 
at present widespread. No one will deny that such broad developments 
and transitions are of great intrinsic interest and the study of ideas 
in literature would be woefully incomplete without frequent reference 
to them. Still, we must remember that we cannot construct and justify 
generalizations of this sort unless we are ready to consider many special 
instances of influence moving between such areas as theology, philosophy, 
political thought, and literature. The actual moments of contact 
are vitally important. These moments are historical events in the 
lives of individual authors with which the student of comparative literature 
must be frequently concerned.   Perhaps the most powerful 
and most frequently recurring literary influence on the Western world 
has been that of the Old and New Testament. Certainly one of 
the most important comments that can be made upon the spiritual and cultural 
life of any period of Western civilization during the past sixteen 
or seventeen centuries has to do with the way in which its leaders 
have read and interpreted the Bible. This reading and the comments 
that it evoked constitute the influence. A contrast of the scripture 
reading of, let us say, St& Augustine, John Bunyan, and Thomas 
Jefferson, all three of whom found in such study a real source of enlightenment, 
can tell us a great deal about these three men and the age 
that each represented and helped bring to conscious expression. In 
much the same way, we recognize the importance of Shakespeare's familarity 
with Plutarch and Montaigne, of Shelley's study of Plato's 
dialogues, and of Coleridge's enthusiastic plundering of the writings 
of many philosophers and theologians from Plato to Schelling 
and William Godwin, through which so many abstract ideas were brought 
to the attention of English men of letters.   We may also recognize 
cases in which the poets have influenced the philosophers and 
even indirectly the scientists. English philosopher Samuel Alexander's 
debt to Wordsworth and Meredith is a recent interesting example, 
as also A& N& Whitehead's understanding of the English romantics, 
chiefly Shelley and Wordsworth. Hegel's profound admiration 
for the insights of the Greek tragedians indicates a broad channel 
of classical influence upon nineteenth-century philosophy. Again the 
student of evolutionary biology will find a fascinating, if to our minds 
grotesque, anticipation of the theory of chance variations and the 
natural elimination of the unfit in Lucretius, who in turn seems to 
have borrowed the concept from the philosopher Empedocles.   Here 
an important caveat is in order. We must avoid the notion, suggested 
to some people by examples such as those just mentioned, that ideas 
are "units" in some way comparable to coins or counters that can 
be passed intact from one group of people to another or even, for that 
matter, from one individual to another.

"Suppose you take Mr& Hearst's morning <American> at 
$10,000 a year", Brisbane proposed. "You could come down to the 
office once a day, look over a few exchanges, dictate an editorial, 
and then have the remainder of your time for your more serious literary 
labors. If within one year you can make a success out of the <American>, 
you can practically name your own salary thereafter. Of course, 
if you don't make the <American> a success, Hearst will have 
no further use for you".   The blue-eyed Watson decided that 
he would dislike living in New York, and the deal fell through. Hearst's 
luck was even poorer when he had a chat with Franklin K& 
Lane, a prominent California journalist and reform politician, whom 
he asked for his support. Lane was still burning because he had narrowly 
missed election as governor of California in 1902 and laid his defeat 
to the antagonism of Hearst's San Francisco <Examiner>. Hearst 
disclaimed blame for this, but the conversation, according to Lane, 
ended on a tart note.   "Mr& Lane", Hearst said, "if 
you ever wish anything that I can do, all you will have to do will 
be to send me a telegram asking, and it will be done".   "Mr& 
Hearst", Lane replied as he left, "if you ever get a telegram 
from me asking you to do anything, you can put the telegram down 
as a forgery".   Hearst took a brief respite to hurry home to 
New York to become a father. On April 10, 1904, his first child was 
born, a son named George after the late Senator. Hearst saw his wife 
and child, sent a joyful message to his mother in California, and 
soon returned to Washington, where on April 22, for the first time, 
he opened his mouth in Congress.   This was not before the House 
but before the Judiciary Committee, where he asked for action on 
one of his pet bills, that calling for an investigation of the coal-railroad 
monopoly. Attorney Shearn had worked on this for two years and 
had succeeded in getting a report supporting his stand from the United 
States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. Hearst 
had spent more than $60,000 of his own money in the probe, but still 
Attorney General Knox was quiescent.   Six of the railroads 
carrying coal to tidewater from the Pennsylvania fields, Hearst said, 
not only had illegal agreements with coal operators but owned outright 
at least eleven mines. They had watered their stock at immense 
profit, then had raised the price of coal fifty cents a ton, netting themselves 
another $20,000,000 in annual profit.   "The Attorney 
General has been brooding over that evidence like an old hen on a 
doorknob for eighteen months", Hearst said. "He has not acted in 
any way, and won't let anyone take it away from him **h What I want 
is to have this evidence come before Congress and if the Attorney 
General does not report it, as I am very sure he won't, as he has 
refused to do anything of the kind, I then wish that a committee of 
seven Representatives be appointed with power to take the evidence 
**h".

The Congressman tried hard, but failed. This was the very 
sort of legislation that Roosevelt himself had in mind. There can 
be little doubt that there was a conspiracy in Washington, overt or 
implied, to block anything Hearst wanted, even if it was something good. 
Hatred tied his hands in Congress. Roosevelt and others considered 
him partly responsible for the murder of McKinley. They were repelled 
by his noisy newspapers, his personal publicity, his presumptuous 
campaign for the Presidential nomination, and by the swelling cloud 
of rumor about his moral lapses. He might get votes from his constituents, 
but he would never get a helping hand in Congress. He was the 
House pariah. Even the regular Democrats disowned him. Inherently 
incapable of cooperating with others, he ran his own show regardless 
of how many party-line Democratic toes he stepped on. He was a political 
maverick, a reformer with his own program, determined to bulldoze 
it through or to blazon the infamy of those who balked him. He showed 
little interest in measures put forward by the regular Democrats. 
He sought to run Congress as he ran his New York <American> or 
<Journal>, a scheme veteran legislators resisted. For a freshman Congressman 
to read political lessons to graybeard Democrats was poor 
policy for one who needed to make friends. He soon quarreled with all 
the party leaders in the House, and came to be regarded with detestation 
by regular Democrats as a professional radical leading a small 
pack of obedient terriers whose constant snapping was demoralizing to 
party discipline.   To old-line Democrats, the Hearst Presidential 
boom, now in full cry, was the joke of the new century. Yet no 
leader had come to the fore who seemed likely to give the puissant T& 
R& a semblance of a race. There was talk of dragging old ex-President 
Cleveland out of retirement for another try. Some preferred 
Judge Alton B& Parker of New York. There was a host of dark 
horses. The sneers at Hearst changed to concern when it was seen that 
he had strong support in many parts of the country. Platoons of Hearst 
agents were traveling from state to state in a surprisingly successful 
search for delegates at the coming convention, and there were charges 
that money was doing a large part of the persuading. Just when 
it was needed for the campaign, Hearst Paper No& 8, the Boston <American>, 
began publication. A Bay State supporter said, "Mr& 
Hearst's fight has been helped along greatly by the starting of 
his paper in Boston". His candidacy affected his journalism somewhat. 
He ordered his editors to tone down on sensationalism and to refrain 
from using such words as "seduction", "rape", "abortion", 
"criminal assault" and "born out of wedlock".   In 
a story headed, "HEARST OFFERS CASH", the Republican New York 
<Tribune> spread the money rumor, quoting an unnamed "Hearst 
supporter" as saying:   "The argument that is cutting most 
ice is that Hearst is the only candidate who is fighting the trusts 
fearlessly and who would use all the powers of government to disrupt 
them if he were elected. The Hearst men say that if Hearst is nominated, 
he and his immediate friends will contribute to the Democratic 
National Committee the sum of $1,500,000. This, it is urged, would 
relieve the national committee from the necessity of appealing to the 
trust magnates. The alternative to this is that if a conservative candidate 
is nominated the national committee will have to appeal to the 
trusts for their campaign funds, and in doing this will incur obligations 
which would make a Democratic victory absolutely fruitless **h. 
the average Democratic politician, especially in the country districts, 
is hungry for the spoils of office. It has been a long time since 
he has seen any campaign money, and when the proposition is laid down 
to him as the friends of Mr& Hearst are laying it down these days 
he is quite likely to get aboard the Hearst bandwagon".   If 
anything, the conservative Democrats were more opposed to Hearst than 
the Republicans. In his own state of New York, the two Democratic 
bellwethers, State Leader Hill and Tammany Boss Murphy, were 
saying nothing openly against Hearst but industriously boosting their 
own favorites, Murphy being for Cleveland and Hill for Parker. They 
had lost twice with the radical Bryan, and were having no part of 
Hearst, whom they considered more radical than Bryan. But his increasing 
strength in the West looked menacing. It caused Henry Watterson 
to sound a blast in his Louisville <Courier-Journal:>

"**h Does any sane Democrat believe that Mr& Hearst, a person 
unknown even to his constituency and his colleagues, without a word 
or 
act in the public life of his country, past or present, that can be 
shown to be his to commend him, could by any possibility be elected President 
of the United States? But there is a Hearst 
barrel **h"

More splenetic was Senator Edward Carmack of Tennessee, 
a Parker man. "**h the nomination of Hearst would compass the ruin 
of the party", Carmack said. "It would be a disgrace, and, as I 
have already said to the people of Tennessee, if Hearst is nominated, 
we may as well pen a dispatch, and send it back from the field of 
battle: 'All is lost, including our honor'".   A lone 
pro-Hearst voice from New York City was that of William Devery, 
who had been expelled as a Tammany leader but still claimed strong influence 
in his own district. "I understand [Hearst] is a candidate 
for Presidential honors", Devery said without cracking a smile. 
"There's nothing like buildin' from the bottom up. If he's 
going to the St& Louis convention as a delegate we ought to know it. 
He's got a lot of friends, and he ought to come along and let us 
know if he wants our help".   Hearst won the Iowa state convention, 
but ran into a bitter battle in Indiana before losing to Parker, 
drawing an angry statement from Indiana's John W& Kern:

"We are menaced for the first time in the history of the Republic 
by the open and unblushing effort of a multi-millionaire to purchase 
the Presidential nomination. Our state has been overrun with a 
gang of paid agents and retainers **h As for the paid Hessians from 
other states, we are here to instruct the Indiana Democracy in their 
duty, I have nothing but contempt **h The Hearst dollar mark is all 
over them **h"

The talk of a Hearst "barrel" was increasing. 
Another Indiana observer later commented, "Perhaps we shall 
never know how much was spent [by Hearst], but if as much money 
was expended elsewhere as in Indiana a liberal fortune was squandered".

In his fight for the Illinois and Indiana delegations, 
Hearst made several trips to Chicago to confer with Andrew Lawrence, 
the former San Francisco <Examiner> man who was now his Chicago 
kingpin, and once to meet with Bryan. On one visit he stopped at 
the office of the <American>, where he was known surreptitiously as 
"the Great White Chief", and for the first time met his managing 
editor, fat Moses Koenigsberg. Koenigsberg never did learn what 
Hearst wanted, for the latter shook hands and moved toward the door.

"Never mind, thank you", he said. "I must hurry to catch 
my train".   Another editor pointed despairingly at a bundle 
of letters that had accumulated for him, saying, "But Mr& Hearst, 
what shall I do with this correspondence"?   "I'll 
show you", Hearst replied, grinning. He took the stack of mail and 
tossed it into the waste basket. "Don't bother. Every letter answers 
itself in a couple of weeks". #/2,. THE HEARST "BARREL"# 

HEARST hopped into a private railroad car with Max Ihmsen 
and made an arduous personal canvass for delegates in the western and 
southern states, always wearing a frock coat, listening intently to local 
politicians, and generally making a good impression. He laughed 
at a story that he planned to bolt the party if he was not nominated.

"I should, of course", he said, "like any other man, be 
honored and gratified should the Democrats see fit to nominate me. But 
I do not have to be bribed by office to be a Democrat. I have supported 
the Democratic party in the last five campaigns. I supported 
Cleveland three times and Bryan twice. I intend to support the nominee 
of the party at St& Louis, whoever he may be".   The 
Hearst press followed the Chief's progress at the various state conventions 
with its usual admiring attention, stressing the "enthusiasm" 
and "loyalty" he inspired. This was historic in its way, for 
it marked the first time an American Presidential aspirant had advertised 
his own virtues in his own string of newspapers spanning the land.

Yet his editors did not abandon their sense of story value. 
When Nan Patterson, a stunning and money-minded chorus girl who 
had appeared in a <Florodora> road show, rode down Broadway in a hansom 
cab with her married lover, Frank Young, she stopped the cab to 
disclose that Young had been shot dead, tearfully insisting that he 
had shot himself although experts said he could not have done so. 
Trevelyan's Liberalism was above all a liberalism of the spirit, a 
deep feeling of communion with men fighting for country and for liberty. 
His passion and enthusiasm convey the courage and high adventure 
of Garibaldi's exploits and give the reader a unique sense of participation 
in the events described.   The three volumes brought to 
the fore a characteristic of Trevelyan's prose which remained conspicuous 
through his later works- a genius for describing military action 
with clarity and with authority. The confused rambling of guerrilla 
warfare, such as most of Garibaldi's campaigns were, was brought 
to life by Trevelyan's pen in some of the best passages in the books. 
His personal familiarity with the scenes of action undoubtedly contributed 
much to the final result, but familiarity alone would not have 
been enough without other qualities. Military knowledge, love of 
detail, and a sure feeling for the portrayal of action were the added 
ingredients.   But the Garibaldi volumes were more than a romantic 
story. Trevelyan contributed considerable new knowledge of the issues 
connected with his subject. The outstanding example was in <Garibaldi 
and the Thousand>, where he made use of unpublished papers of 
Lord John Russell and English consular materials to reveal the motives 
which led the British government to permit Garibaldi to cross 
the Straits of Messina.   In looking back over the volumes, it 
is possible to find errors of interpretation, some of which were not 
so evident at the time of writing. Thus Trevelyan repeats the story 
which pictured Victor Emmanuel as refusing to abandon the famous <Statuto> 
at the insistence of General Radetzky. Later research has 
shown this part of the legend of the <Re Galantuomo> to be false. 
Trevelyan accepts Italian nationalism with little analysis, he is 
unduly critical of papal and French policy, and he is more than generous 
in assessing British policy. But fifty years later the trilogy still 
maintains a firm place in the list of standard works on the unification 
of Italy, a position cautiously prophesied by the reviewers at 
the time of publication.   Trevelyan's <Manin and the Venetian 
revolution of 1848>, his last major volume on an Italian theme, 
was written in a minor key. Published in 1923, it did not gain the popular 
acclaim of the Garibaldi volumes, probably because Trevelyan 
felt less at home with Manin, the bourgeois lawyer, than with Garibaldi, 
the filibuster. The complexities of Venetian politics eluded him, 
but the story of the revolution itself is told in restrained measures, 
with no superfluous passages and only an occasional overemphasis of 
the part played by its leading figure. If it is not one of his best 
books, it can only be considered unsatisfactory when compared with his 
own <Garibaldi>.   Already Trevelyan had begun to parallel 
his nineteenth-century Italian studies with several works on English 
figures of the same period. First <The life of John Bright> appeared 
and seven years later <Lord Grey of the Reform Bill>. Of 
the two, the life of Bright is incomparably the better biography. Trevelyan 
centers too exclusively on Bright, is insufficiently appreciative 
of the views of Bright's opponents and critics, and makes light 
of the genuine difficulties faced by Peel. Yet he is right when he 
claims in his autobiography that he drew the real features of the man, 
his tender and selfless motives and his rugged fearless strength. In 
the story of Bright and the Corn Law agitation, the Crimean War, 
the American Civil War, and the franchise struggle Trevelyan reflects 
something of the moral power which enabled this independent man 
to exercise so immense an influence over his fellow countrymen for so 
long. Because Bright's speeches were so much a part of him, there 
are long and numerous quotations, which, far from making the biography 
diffuse, help to give us the feel of the man. Associated in a sense 
with the Manchester School through his mother's family, Trevelyan 
conveys in this biography something of its moral conviction and drive. 
Nineteenth-century virtues, however, seem somehow to have gone out 
of fashion and the Bright book has never been particularly popular.

The biography of Lord Grey is strictly speaking not a biography 
at all. It is a Whig history of the "Tory reaction" which preceded 
the Reform Bill of 1832, and it uses the figure of Grey to 
give some unity to the narrative. The volume is a piece of passionate 
special pleading, written with the heat- and often with the wisdom, 
it must be said- of a Liberal damning the shortsightedness of politicians 
from 1782 to 1832. Characteristically, Trevelyan enjoyed writing 
the work. The theme of glorious summer coming after a long winter 
of discontent and repression was, he has told us, congenial to his artistic 
sense. And Grey's Northumberland background was close to 
Trevelyan's own. But his concentration on personalities and his categorical 
assessment of their actions fail to convey the political complexities 
of a long generation harassed by world-wide war and confronted 
with the problem of adjustment to an unprecedented industrial and social 
transformation. Some historians have found his point of view not 
to their taste, others have complained that he makes the Tory tradition 
appear "contemptible rather than intelligible", while a sympathetic 
critic has remarked that the "intricate interplay of social dynamics 
and political activity of which, at times, politicians are the 
ignorant marionettes is not a field for the exercise of his talents". 
The Liberal-Radical heritage which informs all of Trevelyan's 
interpretations of history here seems clearly to have distorted the issues 
and oversimplified the period. For once his touch deserted him.

Research in the period of Grey and Bright led naturally to 
a more ambitious work. <Britain in the nineteenth century> is a textbook 
designed "to give the sense of continuous growth, to show how 
economic led to social, and social to political change, how the political 
events reacted on the economic and social, and how new thoughts and 
new ideals accompanied or directed the whole complicated process". 
The plan is admirably fulfilled for the period up to 1832. More temperately 
than in the study of Grey and despite his Liberal bias, Trevelyan 
vividly sketches the England of pre-French Revolution days, 
portrays the stresses and strains of the revolutionary period in rich 
colors, and brings developments leading to the Reform Bill into sharp 
and clear focus. His technique is genuinely masterful. By what one 
reader called a "series of dissolving views", he merges one period 
into another and gives a sense of continuous growth.   But after 
1832, the narrative tends to lose its balanced, many-sided quality 
and to become a medley of topics, often unconnected by any single thread. 
Economic analysis was never Trevelyan's strong point and the 
England of the industrial transformation cries out for economic analysis. 
Yet after 1832, the interrelations of economic and social and political 
affairs become blurred and the narrative becomes largely a conventional 
political account. Finally, the period after 1870 receives 
little attention and that quite superficial. Yet <Britain in the nineteenth 
century> became the <vade mecum> of beginning students of 
history, went through edition after edition, and continues to be reprinted 
up to the very present. Its success is a tribute, above all, to 
Trevelyan's brilliance as a literary stylist.   In 1924 Trevelyan 
traveled to the United States, where he delivered the Lowell 
lectures at Harvard University. These lectures formed the nucleus of 
a general survey of English development which took form afterward as 
a <History of England>. In short order, the general history became 
his most popular work and has remained, aside from his later <Social 
history>, the work most widely favored by the public.   The 
<History of England> has often been compared with Green's <Short 
history>. Like Green, Trevelyan aimed to write a history not 
of "English kings or English conquests", but of the English people. 
The result was fortunate. The <History> takes too much for 
granted to serve as a text for other than English schoolboys, and like 
<Britain in the nineteenth century> it deteriorates badly as it goes 
beyond 1870. Trevelyan's excursions into contemporary history were 
rarely happy ones. But as a stimulating, provocative interpretation 
of the broad sweep of English development it is incomparable. Living 
pictures of the early boroughs, country life in Tudor and Stuart 
times, the impact of the industrial revolution compete with sensitive 
surveys of language and literature, the common law, parliamentary development. 
The strength of the <History> is also its weakness. Trevelyan 
is militantly sure of the superiority of English institutions and 
character over those of other peoples. His 
nationalism was not a new characteristic, but its self-consciousness, 
even its self-satisfaction, is more obvious in a book that stretches 
over the long reach of English history. And yet the elements which 
capture his liberal and humanistic imagination are those which make the 
English story worth telling and worth remembering. Tolerance and 
compromise, social justice and civil liberty, are today too often in short 
supply for one to be overly critical of Trevelyan's emphasis on 
their central place in the English tradition. Like most major works 
of synthesis, the <History of England> is informed by the positive 
views of a first-class mind, and this is surely a major work.

Four years after the publication of the <History of England>, the 
first volume of Trevelyan's Queen Anne trilogy appeared. By now 
he had become Regius Professor of Modern History at Cambridge 
and had been honored by the award of the Order of Merit. His academic 
duties had little evident effect on his prolific pen. <Blenheim> 
was followed in rapid succession by <Ramillies and the union with 
Scotland> and by <The peace and the Protestant succession>, the 
three forming together a detailed picture of <England under Queen Anne>. 
Like his volume on Wycliffe, the work was accompanied by the 
publication of a selected group of documents, in this case illustrative 
of the history of Queen Anne's reign down to 1707.   Trevelyan 
was at least in part attracted to the period by an almost unconscious 
desire to take up the story where Macaulay's <History of England> 
had broken off. In addition, he believed in the "dramatic 
unity and separateness of the period from 1702-14, lying between the Stuart 
and Hanoverian eras with a special ethos of its own". He saw 
the age as one in which Britain "settled her free constitution" 
and attained her modern place in the world. To most observers, there 
is little doubt that he placed an artificial strait jacket of unity upon 
the years of Anne's reign which in reality existed only in the 
pages 
of his history.   Of the three volumes, <Blenheim> is easily 
the best. In four opening chapters reminiscent of Macaulay's famous 
third chapter, Trevelyan surveys the state of England at the opening 
of the eighteenth century. His delightful picture of society and 
institutions is filled with warm detail that brings the period vividly 
to life. He tends to underestimate- or perhaps to view charitably- 
the brutality and the violence of the age, so that there is an idyllic 
quality in these pages which hazes over some of its sharp reality. 
Yet as an evocation of time past, there are few such successful 
portraits 
in English historical literature. Once the scene is set, Trevelyan 
skilfully builds up the tense story until it reaches its climax 
in the dramatic victory of Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy at Blenheim. 
The account of the battle is, next to his descriptions of Garibaldi's 
campaigns, Trevelyan's outstanding military narrative. The 
scene is etched in sharp detail, the military problems brilliantly 
explained, and the excitement and importance of the battle made evident. 
If only for this modest masterpiece of military history, <Blenheim> 
is likely to be read and reread long after newer interpretations 
have perhaps altered our picture of the Marlborough wars.   <Ramillies 
and the union with Scotland> has fewer high spots than <Blenheim> 
and much less of its dramatic unity. Yet in several chapters 
on Scotland in the eighteenth century, Trevelyan copes persuasively 
with the tangled confusion of Scottish politics against a vivid background 
of Scottish religion, customs, and traditions.

I stood on a table, surrounded by hundreds of expectant young 
faces. Questions came to me from all sides about my world citizenship 
activities. After making a short statement about human rights, and the 
freedom to travel, I told them I would be going to the Kehl bridge 
the next morning in order to cross the Rhine into Germany. 
"May we come with you"? called out a dozen young voices.

"Well, I might not get that far", I told them, "as actually 
I have no papers to enter Germany and, as a matter of fact, no permit 
to return to France once I leave".   That was all they needed. 
They would champion me. We would all meet at ten o'clock at 
the Kehl bridge, five miles from Strasbourg, and march triumphantly 
across into Germany.   There was only one hitch: the small town 
of Kehl, on the other side of the Rhine, was still under French 
jurisdiction. The real Franco-German frontier was beyond the town's 
limits. In fact, all persons were permitted to cross the Rhine into 
Kehl, there being no sentry posted on the west side of the river.

That evening, as I learned later, the students, enjoying that 
spontaneous immodesty in action known only to university students, surged 
out onto the streets of Strasbourg, overturning empty streetcars, 
marking up store fronts, and shouting imprudently, "Garry Davis 
to power"!   As I got off the trolley at Kehl bridge the 
next morning, I was met by what looked like 5,000 students, some of whom 
were carrying sticks apparently for the coming "battle" with the 
police. Alarmed by this display of weapons, I looked toward the bridge 
and there saw, stretched across the near side, a cordon of policemen, 
their bicycles forming a roadblock before which stood several French 
officers in uniform and a small waspish man in a brown derby.

"Listen please", I called to the students in French. "I 
thank you most heartily for being here. This is full evidence of your 
support for my principles. These principles, however, will not be served 
by violence in any form. If they are right, they will prevail of 
and by themselves. I ask you all to support me in this. If one finger 
is raised against the authorities, all our moral power will vanish. 
Your self-control in this respect will be the only witness to your 
understanding of what I am saying. I have full confidence in you. Now, 
let's go".   I marched up to the waiting officials, the students 
massed behind me. As usual, the press photographers were on hand. 
The waspish man stopped me three paces from the bicycle barricade, 
and asked me in French if I had papers to leave France. I replied 
in the affirmative, taking out my recently acquired <titre d'identite 
et de voyage>, on which was stamped a permission to leave Fran 
e. He examined it carefully, handed it back and said, "<Eh bien>, 
you may leave France".   I took one step **h eastward.

One of the uniformed officers stepped in my way, demanding to know 
whether I had permission to enter Germany.   "No, I have 
no permission to enter Germany", I told him.   "<Alors>, 
you may go no farther", he said imperiously.   "Is this then 
the frontier"? I asked him.   "Yes".   At this, 
the students let out a yell, knowing full well the actual frontier was 
beyond the town of Kehl.   "But I have no permission to re-enter 
France, and I have just left", I told him. "I must then 
be standing on the line between France and Germany".   The 
waspish man stepped forward. "Line? Line? But there is no line 
between France and Germany, that is, no actual <line> **h I mean 
**h"   "No line"? I asked. "But if there is no line, 
how can there be two countries? You have just given me permission 
to leave France, which I did. I have witnesses. And as you know, 
I have no permission to re-enter France once out. Now I learn I 
cannot 
enter Germany. Obviously I'm stuck on the line between the two 
countries".   The students were laughing uproariously at this 
piece of logic, and even the policemen were trying hard not to smile.

"<Mais non>", the Interior Ministry man coaxed, "you 
may come back to Strasbourg, now, if you wish".   "Oh? Then 
will you give me a visa to re-enter France"?   "Visa? 
But there is no question of a visa. You are still in France".

"Ah, then please tell me where the frontier is because this 
gentleman here"- I indicated the French occupation officer- "informs 
me that Germany is just on the other side of him". 
The Interior man looked uneasily at his French compatriot. From the 
crowd were coming cries of "He's right"! "There must be 
a line"! and "Bravo, Garry, continue"!   Seeing their 
hesitation, I said, "Well, until I have permission to enter Germany, 
or a visa to re-enter France, I shall be obliged to remain here 
**h on the line between two countries", whereupon I moved to the 
side of the road, parked my backpack against the small guardhouse on 
the sidewalk, sat down, took out my typewriter, and began typing the 
above conversation.   The reporters were questioning the Interior 
man and the French officer, both of whom remained noncommittal as 
to what action, if any, would be taken in my regard. Finally they 
went 
off to file their stories, after the photographers had taken pictures 
of my latest vigil. The students crowded around asking questions, slapping 
me on the back, and generally being friendly.   "But what 
will you do this evening, Mr& Davis"? asked a young mustached 
Frenchman. "It will be very cold".   "I don't know", 
I told him, "except that I will be here".   "I shall 
see about getting you a tent", he said. "I have a small sports shop 
in Strasbourg".   That would be a great help, I told him, 
thanking him for his thoughtfulness. A special guard was posted at 
my end of the bridge to make sure I didn't cross, the ludicrousness 
of the situation being revealed fully in that everyone else- men, 
women, and children, dogs, cats, horses, cars, trucks, baby carriages- 
could cross Kehl bridge into Kehl without surveillance.   The 
day passed eventfully enough, with a constant stream of visitors, some 
stopping only to say hello, others getting into serious conversations, 
such as one Andre Fuchs, a free-lance journalist from Strasbourg 
who wrote an article for the <Nouvelle Alsatian> in highly sympathetic 
terms. Some students from the University returned around six 
with a large pot containing enough hot soup to last me a week. A volunteer 
food brigade had been arranged, they told me, which would supply 
me with the necessities as long as I remained at the bridge. A little 
later, the sports shop man returned with a small pup tent. One of 
the girl students, sitting by while I ate the thick soup, asked me if 
I had a sleeping bag. When I informed her that I didn't, she said 
she would borrow her brother's and bring it to me later that evening.

"You do not know me", she said in good English, "but 
my mother was your governess in Philadelphia when you were a child". 
Her name was Esther Peter. I was delighted to make that personal 
contact in such trying and unusual circumstances. The Peter family 
proved wonderful and helpful friends in the following days, Mrs& 
Peter, little Esther, and Raoul, who generously lent me his sleeping 
bag for my "Watch on the Rhine".   Sighting a line from 
the bridge to a small field directly to the side, I pitched the tent 
that evening on the stateless "line", digging a small trench around 
it as best I could with a toy spade donated by a neighborhood child. 
The wind from the Rhine was damp and chill, necessitating a fire 
for warmth. After scouring around a bit in the open area, I came across 
what proved to be tar-soaked logs which crackled and burned brightly, 
giving off vast rolls of smoke into the ashen sky.   Each evening 
the students appeared with the soup kettle and several <petits 
pains>, Esther usually being among them. I had advised friends to 
write me to "No Man's Land, Pont Kehl, Between Strasbourg and 
Kehl, France-Germany". Sure enough, mail began trickling in, 
delivered by a talkative, highly amused French postman who informed me 
there had been quite a debate at the post office as to whether that 
address would be recognized.   On Christmas Eve, students brought 
out two small Christmas trees which I placed on either side of the 
tent. As the field on which my tent was pitched was a favorite natural 
playground for the kids of the neighborhood, I had made many friends 
among them, taking part in their after-school games and trying desperately 
to translate Grimm's Fairy Tales into an understandable 
French as we gathered around the fire in front of the tent. To my great 
surprise and delight, when they saw the two trees they went rushing 
off, returning shortly with decorations from their own trees.

It was a merry if somewhat soggy Christmas for me that year. ## 

In the mail were invitations to speak at the universities of Cologne, 
Heidelberg, and Baden-Baden. Twenty thousand world citizens at 
Stuttgart had signed a petition inviting me to visit their town. When 
Dr& Adenauer was approached by a world citizen delegation to find 
out his disposition of my case, he gave them his personal approval 
of my entry, saying that all men advocating peace should be welcomed into 
Germany. The special guard, however, was still posted on Kehl bridge.

As it began raining at around eight o'clock on December 
26th, I retired into my tent early, somewhat tired and discouraged, 
my body reacting sluggishly 
because of the continued exposure. No matter 
how large the fire, I couldn't seem to shake off the chill that 
day.   "Oh, Mr& Davis, are you there"? a voice drifted 
in to me above the patter of the rain shortly after I had fallen 
into a fitful sleep.   "Who is it"?   "We're from 
the Council of Europe, British delegation. May we have a word with 
you"?   "I'm sorry. I've had a trying day and I just 
can't make it out again", I told them.   I heard nothing 
more. Later I learned that Sir Hugh Dalton had expressed a desire 
to see me, hence their trip to "No Man's Land".   On 
the evening of December 27th, Esther noticed my pallid look and rasping 
voice. She entreated me to see a doctor, and when I refused, brought 
one out to see me. He advised immediate hospitalization. I wouldn't 
hear of it because it meant giving up the "line", though I 
realized I was in poor shape physically. Esther, mistaking my hesitation, 
assured me that the hospital expense would be taken care of by 
a leading merchant in Strasbourg whom she had already approached.

"No, it's not that", I told her. "You see, once I relinquish 
the position I've already established here, I couldn't regain 
it without sacrificing the logic of it".   At that moment, 
up walked a tall young man with glasses who announced himself as a 
world citizen from Basel, Switzerland. Without preliminaries, Esther 
asked him, "If you are a world citizen, will you take Garry Davis' 
place in his tent while he goes to the hospital"?   "But 
of course, with pleasure", he replied.   Esther looked at 
me. I looked from her to him.   "What is your name"? I 
asked him.   "Jean Babel".   "Shake", I said. "You 
have just enlisted for the 'Rhine Campaign'".   Esther 
jumped up, ran to him and gave him a little hug.   "I am 
so happy. Now come, Garry, we must go quickly. There is a police car 
outside. Maybe they will take us".   Such were the incongruities 
of the situation that the very police assigned to check up on me 
were drafted into driving me to the Strasbourg Hospital while World 
Citizen Jean Babel waved adieu from the "Line"! 
He remembered every detail of his pre-assault movements but nothing of 
the final, desperate rush to come to grips with the enemy. When the 
victory cheer went up this officer found himself still mounted, with 
his 
horse pressed broadside against Cleburne's log parapet in a tangled 
group of infantrymen. His hat was gone, the tears were streaming 
from his eyes. He never knew how he got there. Six climactic minutes 
in an individual's life left no memory.   Eight hundred and sixty-five 
Rebels surrendered within their works and a thousand more were 
captured or surrendered themselves that night and the next day. Eight 
field guns were captured in position. Seven battle flags and fourteen 
officers' swords were sent to Thomas' headquarters. It was 
the only sizable assault upon infantry and artillery behind breastworks 
successfully made by either side during the Atlanta campaign. The 
Fourteenth Regiment of Ohio Volunteers lost one-third of its numbers 
within a few minutes, among them being several men whose time of service 
had expired but who had volunteered to advance with their regiment. 
The Thirty-eighth Regiment of Ohio Volunteers, one of the regiments 
in Thomas' First Division during Buell's command, suffered 
its greatest loss of the war in this action.   A popular belief 
grew up after the war that the only time during the Civil War that 
Thomas ever put his horse to a gallop was when he went to hurry up 
Stanley for this assault. Sherman was responsible for the story when 
he said in his memoirs that this was the only time he could recall 
seeing Thomas ride so fast. While Thomas' injured back led him to 
restrain his mount from its most violent gait he moved quickly enough 
when he had to. It is not in the record, but he must have galloped his 
horse at Peach Tree Creek when he brought up Ward's guns to save 
Newton's crumbling line.   While the final combat of the 
campaign was being worked out at Jonesborough, Thomas, on Sherman's 
instructions, ordered Slocum, now commanding the Twentieth Corps, 
to make an effort to occupy Atlanta if he could do so without exposing 
his bridgehead to a counterattack. The dispatch must have been sent 
after sundown on September 1. Slocum made his reconnaissanace the 
next morning, found the town empty, accepted the surrender of the mayor 
and occupied the city a little before noon.   On the morning 
of September 2 the Fourth Corps and the Armies of the Tennessee and 
the Ohio followed the line of Hardee's retreat. About noon they 
came up with the enemy two miles from Lovejoy's Station and deployed. 
The Fourth Corps assaulted and carried a small portion of the 
enemy works but could not hold possession of the gain for want of cooperation 
from the balance of the line. That night a note written in 
Slocum's hand and dated from inside the captured city came to Sherman 
stating that the Twentieth Corps was in possession of Atlanta. 
Before making the news public Sherman sent an officer with the note 
to Thomas. In a short time the officer returned and Thomas followed 
on his heels. The cautious Thomas re-examined the note and then, making 
up his mind that it was genuine, snapped his fingers, whistled and 
almost danced in his exuberance.   The next day Sherman issued 
his orders ending the campaign and pulled his armies back to Atlanta. 
The measure of combat efficiency in an indecisive campaign is a matter 
of personal choice. Sherman laid great store by place captures. 
Hood refused to notice anything except captured guns and colors. By 
both standards Thomas had the right to be proud.   Thomas thanked 
his men for their tenacity of purpose, unmurmuring endurance, cheerful 
obedience, brilliant heroism and high qualities in battle. 
Sherman felt that his own part in the campaign was skillful and well 
executed but that the slowness of a part of his army robbed him of the 
larger fruits of victory. He supposed the military world would approve 
of his accomplishment.   Whatever the military world thought, 
the political world approved it wholeheartedly. For some time, despondency 
in some Northern quarters had been displayed in two ways- an 
eagerness for peace and a dissatisfaction with Lincoln. Proposals 
were in the air for a year's armistice. Lincoln was sure that he would 
not be re-elected. In the midst of this gloom, at 10:05 P&M& 
on September 2, Slocum's telegram to Stanton, "General Sherman 
has taken Atlanta", shattered the talk of a negotiated peace 
and boosted Lincoln into the White House. To the Republicans no 
victory 
could have been more complete.   Official congratulations 
showered upon Sherman and his army. Lincoln mentioned their distinguished 
ability, courage and perseverance. He felt that this campaign would 
be famous in the annals of war. Grant called it prompt, skillful 
and brilliant. Halleck described it as the most brilliant of the war.

Actually the Atlanta campaign was a military failure. Next 
best to destroying an army is to deprive it of its freedom of action. 
Sherman had accomplished this much of his job and then inexplicably 
nullified it by his thirty-mile retreat from Lovejoy's to Atlanta. 
But, so far as its territorial objectives were concerned, the campaign 
was successful. Within the narrow frame of military tactics, too, 
the experts agree that the campaign was brilliant. In seventeen weeks 
the military front was driven southward more than 100 miles. There 
was a battle on an average of once every three weeks. The skirmishing 
was almost constant. In the summary of the principal events of the campaign 
compiled from the official records there are only ten days which 
show no fighting. The casualties in the Army of the Cumberland were 
22,807, while for all three armies they were 37,081. Men were killed 
in their camps, at their meals and in their sleep. Rifle fire often 
kept the opposing gunners from manning their pieces. Modern warfare 
was born in this campaign- periscopes, camouflage, booby traps, land 
mines, extended order, trench raids, foxholes, armored cars, night 
attacks, flares, sharpshooters in trees, interlaced vines and treetops, 
which were the forerunners of barbed wire, trip wires to thwart a cavalry 
charge, which presaged the mine trap, and the general use of anesthetics. 
The use of map coordinates was begun when the senior officers 
began to select tactical points by designating a spot as "near the 
letter ~o in the word mountain". A few weeks later the maps were 
being divided into squares and a position was described as being "about 
lots 239, 247 and 272 with pickets forward as far as 196". This 
system was dependent upon identical maps and Thomas supplied them 
from a mobile lithograph press. 
Orders of the day began to specify the 
standard map for the movement.   Sherman proved that a railway 
base could be movable and the most brilliant feature of the Atlanta 
campaign was the rapid repair of the tracks. To the Rebels it seemed 
as if Sherman carried tunnels and bridges in his pockets. The whistle 
of Sherman's locomotives often drowned out the rattle of the skirmish 
fire. As always, the ranks worked out new and better tactics, but 
there was brilliance in the way the field commands adopted these methods 
and in the way the army commanders incorporated them into their 
military thinking. The fossilized, formalized, precedent-based thinking 
of the legendary military brain was not evident in Sherman's armies. 
Sherman could never be accused of sticking too long with the old.

One of Sherman's most serious shortcomings, however, was 
his mistrust of his cavalry. He never saw that it was a complement to 
his infantry and not a substitute for it. Then, in some way, this lack 
of faith in the cavalry became mixed up in his mind with the dragging 
effect of wagon trains and was hardened into a prejudice. A horse 
needed twenty pounds of food a day but the infantryman got along with 
two pounds. The horseman required eleven times more than the footman. 
So Sherman tried a compromise. He would ship by rail five pounds per 
day per animal and the other fifteen pounds that were needed could 
be picked up off the country. It failed to work. Already debilitated 
by the Chattanooga starvation, the quality of Sherman's horseflesh 
ran downhill as the campaign progressed. Every recorded request by 
Thomas for a delay in a flank movement or an advance was to gain time 
to take care 
of his horses.   Well led, properly organized cavalry, 
in its complementary role to infantry, had four functions. First, 
it could locate the enemy infantry, learn what they were doing, and hold 
them until the heavy foot columns could come up and take over. Second, 
it could screen its own infantry from the sight of the enemy. Third, 
it could threaten at all times, and destroy when possible, the enemy 
communications. It could reach key tactical points faster than infantry 
and destroy them or hold them as the case might be for the foot 
soldier. Its climactic role was to pursue and demoralize a defeated 
enemy but this chance never came in the Atlanta campaign. Thomas tried 
hard to have his cavalry ready for the test it was to meet, but his 
plans were wrecked when it was forced into a campaign without optimum 
mobility and with its commander stripped from it.   Sherman knew 
the uses of cavalry as well as Thomas but he imagined a moving base 
with infantry wings instead of cavalry wings. His conception proved 
workable but slower and it enabled his enemy to make clean, deft, well 
organized retreats with small materiel losses. Sherman insisted that 
cavalry could not successfully break up hostile railways, yet Garrard's 
Covington raid and Rousseau's Opelika raid cut two-thirds 
of the rail lines he had to break and Sherman lived in mortal fear of 
what Forrest might do to his communications.   When McPherson 
pushed blindly through Snake Creek Gap in a potentially decisive 
movement, the only cavalry in his van was the Ninth Illinois Mounted 
Infantry, totally inadequate for its role. It stumbled on infantry 
where no infantry should have been and McPherson's aggressive impulse 
faded out, overwhelmed by fears of the unknown. A proper cavalry 
command in his front would have developed the fact that he had run into 
one division of Polk's Army of the Mississippi moving up from 
the direction of Mobile to join Johnston at Dalton. From the night 
of August 30 to the morning of September 2 there was no Union cavalry 
east of the Macon railway to disclose to Sherman that he was missing 
the greatest opportunity of his career. A great part of the time, 
Thomas' infantry never knew the location of the enemy line. At such 
times Thomas wondered when and where a counterattack would strike 
him. It was the hard way to fight a war but Thomas did it without making 
any disastrous mistakes.   Heat during the Atlanta campaign, 
coupled with unsuitable clothing, caused individual irritation that 
was compounded by a lack of opportunity to bathe and shift into clean 
clothing. To relieve the itch and sweat galls, the men got into the 
water whenever they could and since each sizable stream was generally 
the dividing line between the armies the pickets declared a private 
truce while the men went swimming. Johnston believed that Sherman put 
his naked engineers into the swimming parties to locate the various 
fords. Lieutenant Colonel James P& Brownlow, who commanded the 
First Brigade of Thomas' First Cavalry Division, was ordered across 
one of these fords. The water was deep and Brownlow took his troopers 
across naked- except for guns, cartridge boxes and hats. They 
kicked their horses through the deep water with their bare heels, drove 
the Rebels out of their rifle pits and captured four men. Most of 
the Rebels got away since they could make better time through the stiff 
brush than their naked pursuers.   Rank was becoming an explosive 
issue in all three of Sherman's armies. Merited recommendations 
from army commanders were passed over in favor of political appointees 
from civil life.

In one of the very few letters in which he ever complained of 
Meynell, Thompson told Patmore of his distress at having had to leave 
London before this new friendship had developed further: "

That was a very absurd and annoying situation in which I was placed 
by 
W& M&'s curious methods of handling me. He never let me know 
that my visit was about to terminate until the actual morning I was 
to leave for Lymington. The result was that I found myself in the 
ridiculous position of having made a formal engagement by letter for 
the next week, only two days before my departure from London. Luckily 
both women knew my position and if anyone suffered in their opinion 
it was not I". It need hardly be remarked that Thompson was not 
generally known for his scrupulosity about keeping his social engagements, 
which makes his irritation in this letter all the more significant.

When Thompson and her daughter began a correspondence which 
included fervent verses from Pantasaph, Mrs& King felt a proper 
Victorian alarm. Some, she knew, looked upon Thompson almost as a 
saint, 
but others read in "The Hound of Heaven" what they took to 
be the confessions of a great sinner, who, like Oscar Wilde, had- 
as one pious writer later put it- thrown himself "on the swelling 
wave of every passion".   Consequently, on October 31, 1896, 
Mrs& King wrote to Thompson, quite against her daughter's wishes, 
asking him not to "recommence a correspondence which I believe 
has been dropped for some weeks". Katherine was staying at a convent, 
and her mother felt that, as Thompson himself seems to have suggested, 
she might eventually stay there. This prospect did not please Mrs& 
King any more than did the possibility that her daughter might 
marry a Bohemian, but she used it to suggest to Thompson that, 
"It 
is not in her nature to love you".   For his part, Thompson 
had explained in a previous letter that there would be nothing but an 
honorable friendship between Katie and himself. At no time does he 
seem to have proposed marriage, and Mrs& King was evidently torn between 
a concern for her daughter's emotions and the desire to believe 
that the friendship might be continued without harm to her reputation. 
In any case, she told Thompson that she saw no reason why he might 
not see Katie again, "now that this frank explanation has been made 
+ no one can misunderstand". She ended her letter with the assurance 
that she considered his friendship for her daughter and herself 
to be an honor, from which she could not part "without still more pain".

After Thompson came to London to live, he received a 
letter from Katie, which was dated February 8, 1897. She regretted 
what she described as the "unwarrantable + unnecessary" check to their 
friendship and said that she felt that they understood one another 
perfectly. This letter concluded with an invitation: "  I 
am a great deal at the little children's Hospital. Mr& Meynell 
knows the way. I know you are very busy now, you are writing a great 
deal + your book is coming out, isn't it? but if you are able + care 
to come, you know how glad I shall be.   Ever yours sincerely,

Katherine Douglas King" The invitation was accepted and 
other letters followed, in which she spoke of her concern for his health 
and her delight in seeing him so much at home among the crippled 
children she served. It is difficult to say what Thompson expected 
would come of their relationship, which had begun so soon after his emotions 
had been stirred by Maggie Brien, but when Katie wrote on April 
11, 1900, to tell him that she was to be married to the Rev& Godfrey 
Burr, the vicar of Rushall in Staffordshire, the news evidently 
helped to deepen his discouragement over the failure of his hopes 
for a new volume of verse. In a letter to Meynell, which was written 
in June, less than a month before Katie's wedding, he was highly 
melodramatic in his despair and once again announced his intention of 
returning to the life of the streets: "  A week in arrears, 
and without means to pay, I must go, it is the only right thing. **h 
Perhaps Mrs& Meynell would do me the undeserved kindness to keep 
my own copy of the first edition of my first book, with all its mementos 
of her and the dear ones. **h Last, not least, there are some poems 
which K& King sent me (addressed to herself) when I was preparing 
a fresh volume, asking me to include them. The terrible blow of 
the New Year put an end to that project. I wish you would return them 
to her. I have not the heart. **h I never had the courage to look 
at them, when my projected volume became hopeless, fearing they were 
poor, until now when I was obliged to do so. **h O my genius, young 
and <ripening,> you would swear,- when I wrote them; and now! 
What has it all come to? All chance of fulfilling my destiny is 
over. **h I want you to be grandfather to these orphaned poems, dear 
father-brother, now I am gone; and launch them on the world when their 
time comes. For them a box will be lodgment enough. **h Katie cannot 
mind your seeing them now; since my silence must have ended when 
I gave the purposed volume to you. **h I ask you to do me the last 
favour of reading them by 8 to-morrow evening, about which time I shall 
come to say my sad good-bye. If you don't think much of them, tell 
me the wholesome truth. If otherwise, you will give me a pleasure. 
O Wilfrid! it is strange; but this- yes, <terrible> step I 
am about to take **h is lightened with an inundating joy by the new-found 
hope that here, in these poems, is treasure- or at least some 
measure of beauty, which I did not know of". **h Thompson, of 
course, 
was persuaded not to take the <"terrible> step"; Meynell once 
again paid his debts and it was Katie, rather than Thompson, whose 
life was soon ended, for she died in childbirth in April, 1901, in 
the first year of her marriage.   The "orphaned poems" mentioned 
in the letter to Meynell comprised a group of five sonnets, which 
were published in the 1913 edition of Thompson's works under the 
heading "Ad Amicam", plus certain other completed pieces and rough 
drafts gathered together in one of the familiar exercise books. The 
publication of Father Connolly's <The Man Has Wings> has made 
more of the group available in print so that a general picture of 
what it contained can now be had without difficulty. Some of the poems 
express a mood of joy in a newly discovered love; others suggest its 
coming loss or describe the poet's feelings when he learns of a final 
separation.   The somewhat Petrarchan love story which these 
poems suggest cannot obscure the fact that undoubtedly they have more 
than a little of autobiographical sincerity. When they were first 
written, there was evidently no thought of their being published, and 
those which refer to the writer's love for Mrs& Meynell particularly 
have the ring of truth. In "My Song's Young Virgin Date", 
for example, Thompson wrote: "Yea, she that had my song's 
young virgin date Not now, alas, that noble singular she, I nobler 
hold, though marred from her once state, Than others in their best integrity. 
My own stern hand has rent the ancient bond, And thereof shall 
the ending not have end: But not for me, that loved her, to be 
fond Lightly to please me with a newer friend. Then hold it more than 
bravest-feathered song, That I affirm to thee, with heart of pride, 
I knew not what did to a friend belong Till I stood up, true friend, 
by thy true side; Whose absence dearer comfort is, by far, Than 
presences of other women are"!   Taking into account Thompson's 
capacity for self-dramatization and the possibility of a wish 
to identify his own life with the misfortunes of other poets who had known 
unhappy loves, there can be no doubt about his genuine emotion for 
Katie King. That she was affected by his protestations seems obvious, 
but since she was evidently a sensible young woman- as well as 
an outgoing and sympathetic type- it would seem that for her the word 
<friendship> had a far less intense emotional significance than that 
which Thompson gave it. From the outset, she must have realized that 
marriage with him was out of the question, and although she was displeased 
by the "unwarrantable" interference, it seems probable that 
she did agree with her mother's suggestion that the poet was "perhaps" 
a man "most fitted to live + die solitary, + in the love 
only of the Highest Lover".   The poems which were addressed 
to her, while they are far more restrained than those of "Love in 
Dian's Lap", show no great technical advance over those of the "Narrow 
Vessel" group and are, if anything, somewhat more labored. 
Their interest remains chiefly biographical, for they throw some light 
on the utter despair which overtook Thompson in the spring and early 
summer of 1900.   Whether or not Danchin is correct in suggesting 
that Thompson's resumption of the opium habit also dates from 
this period is, of course, a matter of conjecture. Reid simply states, 
without offering any supporting evidence, that "after he returned 
to London, he resumed his draughts of laudanum, and continued this 
right up to his death". There is every reason to recognize that in 
the very last years of his life, as we shall see, Thompson did take 
the drug in carefully rationed doses to ease the pains of his illness, 
but the exact date at which this began has never been determined. If, 
as Reid says, "nearly all his poetry was produced when he was not 
taking opium", there may be some reason to doubt that he was under 
its influence in the period from 1896 to 1900 when he was writing the 
poems to Katie King and making plans for another book of verse. In 
any event, the critical productivity of that time is abundant proof that 
if he was taking laudanum, it was never in command of him to the extent 
that it had been during his vagrant years.   Meynell's remedy 
for Thompson's despondent mood was typically practical. He simply 
found more work for him to do, and the articles and reviews continued 
without an evident break. #@ /3, @#

As a reviewer, Thompson 
generally displayed a judicious attitude. That he read some 
of the books assigned to him with a studied carefulness is evident from 
his notes, which are often so full that they provide an unquestionable 
basis for the identification of reviews that were printed without 
his signature. On the basis of this careful reading, Thompson frequently 
gave a clear, complete, and interesting description of a prose work 
or chose effective quotations to illustrate his discussions of poetry.

He was seldom an unmethodical critic, and his reviews generally 
followed a systematic pattern: a description of what the work 
contained, a treatment of the things that had especially interested him 
in it, and, wherever possible, a balancing of whatever artistic merits 
and faults he might have found.   It was, of course, in this 
drawing 
of the balance sheet of judgment that he most clearly displayed his desire 
to do full justice to an author. Reviewing Davidson's <The 
Testament of an Empire Builder,> for example, Thompson found 
that 
there was "too much metrical dialectic". Poetry, he said, must be 
"dogmatic": it must not stoop to argue like a "K&C& in 
cloth-of-gold". Yet Davidson impressed him as a poet capable of "sustained 
power, passion, or beauty", and he cited specific passages 
to illustrate not only these qualities but Davidson's command of 
imagery as well. Similarly, he wrote that Laurence Housman had a "too 
deliberate manner" as well as a lack of "inevitable felicity 
in diction". But he admired Housman's "subtle intellectuality" 
and delighted in the inversion by which Divine Love becomes the most 
"fatal" allurement in "Love the Tempter".   Of course, 
there were books about which nothing good could be said. Understanding, 
as he did, the difficulty of the art of poetry, and believing 
that the "only technical criticism worth having in poetry is that of 
poets", he felt obliged to insist upon his duty to be hard to please 
when it came to the review of a book of verse.

As he had done on his first Imperial sortie a year and a half 
before, Lewis trekked southeast through Red Russia to Kamieniec. 
Thence he pushed farther south than he had ever been before into Podolia 
and Nogay Tartary or the Yedisan. There, along the east bank 
of the Southern Bug, opposite the hamlet of Zhitzhakli a few miles 
north of the Black Sea, he arrived at General Headquarters of the 
Russian Army. By June 19, 1788, he had presented himself to its Commander 
in Chief, the Governor of the Southern Provinces, the Director 
of the War College- The Prince. ##

Catherine's first 
war against the Grand Turk had ended in 1774 with a peace treaty 
quite favorable to her. By 1783 her legions had managed to annex the 
Crimea amid scenes of wanton cruelty and now, in this second combat with 
the Crescent, were aiming at suzerainty over all of the Black Sea's 
northern shoreline.   Through most of 1787 operations on 
both sides had been lackadaisical; those of 1788 were going to prove 
decisive, though many of their details are obscure. To consolidate what 
her Navy had won, the Czarina was fortunate that, for the first 
time in Russian history, her land forces enjoyed absolute unity of command 
under her favorite Giaour. Potemkin was directing this conflict 
on three fronts: in the Caucasus; along the Danube and among the 
Carpathians, in alliance with the Emperor Joseph's armies; and 
in the misty marshlands and shallow coastal waters of Nogay Tartary 
and Taurida, including the Crimean peninsula. Here the war would 
flame to its focus, and here Lewis Littlepage had come.   Potemkin's 
Army of Ekaterinoslav, totaling, it was claimed, 40,000 regular 
troops and 6,000 irregulars of the Cossack Corps, had invested 
Islam's principal stronghold on the north shore of the Black Sea, 
the fortress town of Oczakov, and was preparing to test the Turk by 
land and sea. During a sojourn of slightly more than three months Chamberlain 
Littlepage sould see action on both elements.   As his 
second in command The Prince had Marshal Repnin, one-time Ambassador 
to Poland. Repnin, who had a rather narrow face, longish nose, 
high forehead, and arching brows, looked like a quizzical Mephistopheles. 
Some people thought he lacked both ability and character, but 
most 
agreed that he was noble in appearance and, for a Russian, humane. 
The Marshal came to know Littlepage quite well. At General Headquarters 
the newcomer in turn got to know others. There was the Neapolitan, 
Ribas, a capable conniver whose father had been a blacksmith 
but who had fawned his way up the ladder of Catherine's and Potemkin's 
favor till he was now a brigadier (and would one day be the daggerman 
designated to do in Czar Paul /1,, after traveling all the 
way 
to Naples to procure just the right stiletto).   Then there were 
the distinguished foreign volunteers. Representing the Emperor were 
the Prince de Ligne, still as impetuous as a youth of twenty; and 
General the Count Pallavicini, founder of the Austrian branch of 
that celebrated Italian house, a courtier Littlepage could have met 
at Madrid in December, 1780. From Milan came the young Chevalier 
de Litta, an officer in the service of Malta. Out of Saxony rode 
the Prince of Anhalt-Bernburg, one of the Czarina's cousins and 
a lieutenant general in her armies, a frank, sensitive, popular soldier 
whose kindnesses Littlepage would "always recall with the sincerest 
gratitude".   Though Catherine was vexed at the number of 
French officers streaming to the Turkish standard, there were several 
under her own, such as the Prince de Nassau; the energetic Parisian, 
Roger de Damas, three year's Littlepage's junior, to whom 
Nassau had taken a liking; and the artillerist, Colonel Prevost, 
whom the Count de Segur had persuaded to lend his technical skills 
to Nassau. England contributed a young subaltern named Newton and 
the naval architect Samuel Bentham, brother to the economist, who far 
his colonel's commission was proving a godsend to the Russian fleet. 
From America were the Messrs& Littlepage and Jones. 
Lewis had expected to report at once to Jones's and Nassau's naval 
command post. On arrival at headquarters he had, however- in King 
Stanislas' words to Glayre- "found such favor with ~Pe 
Potemkin that he made him his aide-de-camp and up to now does not want 
him to go join Paul Jones **h". So of course he stayed put. Having 
done so, he began to experience all the frustrations of others who 
attempted to get along with Serenissimus and do a job at the same 
time.   The Prince's perceptions were quick and his energy monstrous, 
but these qualities were sapped by an Oriental lethargy and 
a policy of letting nothing interfere with personal passions. At headquarters- 
sufficiently far from the firing line to make you forget occasionally 
that you were in a war- Lewis found that the Commander 
in Chief's only desk was his knees (and his only comb, his fingers). 
An entire theater had been set up for his diversion, with a 200-man 
Italian orchestra under the well-known Sarti. In the great one's 
personal quarters, a portable house, almost every evening saw an elegant 
banquet or reception. Lewis could let his eye caress The Prince's 
divan, covered with a rose-pink and silver Turkish cloth, or admire 
the lovely tapis, interwoven with gold, that spread across the floor. 
Filigreed perfume boxes exuded the aromas of Araby. Around the 
billiard tables were always at least a couple of dozen beribboned generals. 
At dinner the courses were carried in by tall cuirassiers in red 
capes and black fur caps topped with tufts of feathers, marching in 
pairs like guards from a stage tragedy.   Among the visitors arriving 
every now and then there were, of course, women. For if Serenissimus 
made the sign of the Cross with his right hand, and meant it, 
with his left he beckoned lewdly to any lady who happened to catch his 
eye. Usually Lewis would find at headquarters one or more of The 
Prince's various nieces.   Right now he found Sophie de Witt, 
that magnificent young matron he had spotted at Kamieniec fours years 
ago. The Prince took her with him on every tour around the area, 
and it was rumored he was utilizing her knowledge of Constantinople 
as part of his espionage network. One evening he passed around the banquet 
table a crystal cup full of diamonds, requesting every female guest 
to select one as a souvenir. When a lady chanced to soil a pair of 
evening slippers, Brigadier Bauer was dispatched to Paris for replacements.

But if The Prince fancied women and was fascinated 
by foreigners, he could be haughtiness personified to his subordinates. 
He had collared one of his generals in public. His coat trimmed 
in sable, diamond stars of the Orders of Saints Andrew or George agleam, 
he was often prone to sit sulkily, eye downcast, in a Scheherazade 
trance. When this happened, everything stopped. As Littlepage 
noted: "A complete picture of Prince Potemkin may be had in his 
1788 operations. He stays inactive for half the summer in front of Oczakov, 
a quite second-rate spot, begins to besiege it <formally> only 
during the autumn rains, and finally carries it <by assault> in 
the heart of winter. There's a man who never goes by the ordinary road 
but still arrives at his goal, who gratuitously gets himself into 
difficulty in order to get out of it with eclat, in a word a man who creates 
monsters for himself in order to appear a <Hercules> in destroying 
them".   To help him do so The Prince had conferred control 
of his land forces on a soldier who was different from him in almost 
every respect save one: both were eccentrics of the purest ray 
serene.   Alexander Vasilievitch Suvorov, now in his fifty-ninth 
year (ten years Potemkin's senior), was a thin, worn-faced person 
of less than medium height who looked like a professor of botany. He 
had a small mouth with deep furrows on either side, a large flat nose, 
and penetrating blue eyes. His gray hair was thin, his face beginning 
to attract a swarm of wrinkles. He was ugly. But Suvorov's face 
was also a theater of vivacity, and his tough, stooping little frame 
was briskness embodied. Like all Russians he was an emotional man, 
and in him the emotions warred. Kind by nature, he never refused charity 
to a beggar or help to anyone who asked him for it (as Lewis would 
one day discover). But he was perpetually engaged in a battle to 
command his own temper.   When Littlepage was introduced, if the 
General behaved as usual, the newcomer faced a staccato salvo of queries: 
origin? age? mission? current status? Woe betide the 
interviewee if he answered vaguely. Suvorov's contempt for don't-know's 
was proverbial; better to give an asinine answer than none 
at all. Despising luxuries of any sort for a soldier, he slept on a 
pile of hay with his cloak as blanket. He rose at 4:00 A&M& the 
year round and 
was apt to stride through camp crowing like a cock to wake 
his men. His breakfast was tea; his dinner fell anywhere from nine 
to noon; his supper was nothing. He hadn't worn a watch or carried 
pocket money for years because he disliked both, but highest among 
his hates were looking glasses: he had snatched one from an officer's 
grasp and smashed it to smithereens. He kept several pet birds 
and liked cats well enough that if one crept by, he would mew at it in 
friendly fashion. Passing dogs were greeted with a cordial bark.

Yet General Suvorov- who had never forgotten hearing his adored 
Czarina declare that all truly great men had oddities- was mad 
only north, northwest. He had come to learn that a reputation for peculiarity 
allowed mere field officers a certain leeway at Court; in 
camp he knew it won you the affection of your men. He had accordingly 
cultivated eccentricity to the point of second nature. Underneath, he 
remained one of the best-educated Russians of his day. He dabbled 
in verse, could get along well among most of the European languages, 
and was fluent in French and German. He had also mastered the Cossack 
tongue.   For those little men with the short whiskers, shaven 
polls, and top knots Suvorov reserved a special esteem. Potemkin- 
as King Stanislas knew, and presently informed Littlepage- looked 
on the Cossacks as geopolitical tools. To Serenissimus such tribes 
as the Cossacks of the Don or those ex-bandits the Zaporogian 
Cossacks 
(in whose islands along the lower Dnieper the Polish novelist 
Sienkiewicz would one day place <With Fire and Sword>) were just 
elements for enforced resettlement in, say, Bessarabia, where, as 
"the faithful of the Black Sea borders", he could use their presence 
as baragining points in the Czarina's territorial claims against 
Turkey. Suvorov saw in these scimitar-wielding skirmishers not demographic 
units but military men of a high potential. He knew how to 
channel their exuberant disorderliness so as to transform them from mere 
plunderers into A-1 guerrilla 
fighters. He always kept a few on his 
personal staff. He often donned their tribal costumes, such as the 
one featuring a tall, black sheepskin hat from the top of which dangled 
a little red bag ornamented by a chain of worsted lace and tassels; 
broad red stripes down the trouser leg; broader leather belt round 
the waist, holding cartridges and light sabre. Suvorov played parent 
not just to his Cossacks but to all his troops. It was probably at 
this period that Littlepage got his first good look at the ordinary 
Russian soldier.   These illiterate boors conscripted from villages 
all across the Czarina's empire had, Suvorov may have told Lewis, 
just two things a commander could count on: physical fitness and 
personal courage. When their levies came shambling into camp, they 
were all elbows, hair, and beard. They emerged as interchangeable cogs 
in a faulty but formidable machine: shaved nearly naked, hair queued, 
greatcoated, jackbooted, and best of all- in the opinion of the 
British professional, Major Semple-Lisle- "their minds are not 
estranged from the paths of obedience by those smatterings of knowledge 
which only serve to lead to insubordination and mutiny". 
Mando, pleading her cause, must have said that Dr& Brown was the 
most distinguished physician in the United States of America, for 
our man poured out his symptoms and drew a madly waving line indicating 
the irregularity of his pulse. "He's got high blood pressure, too, 
and bum kidneys", the doctor said to me. "Transparent look, waxy 
skin- could well be uremia". He looked disapprovingly at an ash 
tray piled high with cigarette stubs, shook his head, and moved his 
hand back and forth in a strong negative gesture. The little official 
hung his head in shame. Seeing this, his colleague at the next desk 
gave a short, contemptuous laugh, pushed forward his own ash tray, innocent 
of a single butt, thumped his chest to show his excellent condition, 
and looked proud. The doctor gravely nodded approval.

At this moment Mando came hurrying up to announce that the problem 
was solved and all Norton had to do was to sign a sheaf of papers. We 
went out of the office and down the hall to a window where documents 
and more officials awaited us, the rest of the office personnel hot 
upon our heels. By this time word had got around that an American doctor 
was on the premises. One fellow who had liver spots held out his 
hands to the great healer. It was funny but it was also touching. "You 
know", Norton said to me later, "I am thinking of setting 
up the Klinico Brownapopolus. I might not make any money but I'd 
sure have patients".   After luncheon we took advantage of 
the siesta period to try to get in touch with a few people to whom our 
dear friend Deppy had written. Deppy is Despina Messinesi, a long-time 
member of the <Vogue> staff who, although born in Boston, was 
born there 
of Greek parents. Several years of her life have been spent in 
the homeland, and she had written to friends to alert them of our coming. 
"All you have to do, Ilka dear, is to phone on your arrival. 
They are longing to see you". The wear and tear of life have taught 
me that very few friends of mutual friends long to see foreign strangers, 
but I planned on being the soul of tact, of giving them plenty 
of outs was there the tiniest implication that their cups were already 
running over without us. My diplomacy was needless. Greek phone service 
is worse than French, so that it was to be some little time before 
contact of any sort was established.   In the late afternoon 
Mando came back to fetch us, and we drove to the Acropolis. We stopped 
first at the amphitheater that lies at the foot of the height crowned 
by the Parthenon. The curving benches are broken, chipped, tumbled, 
but still in place, as are the marble chairs, the seats of honor 
for the legislators. The carved statues of the frieze against the low 
wall are for the most part headless, but their exquisitely graceful nude 
and draped torsos and the kneeling Atlantes are well preserved in 
their perfect proportion.   Having completed our camera work, we 
started our climb. I suppose the same emotion holds, if to a lesser 
degree, with any famous monument. Will it live up to its reputation? 
The weight of fame and history is formidable, and dreary steel engravings 
in schoolbooks do little to quicken interest and imagination. Uh 
huh, we think, looking at them, so that's the Parthenon. And then 
perhaps one day we get to Athens. We are here! We've come a 
long way and spent a lot of money. It had better be good. Don't worry 
about the Acropolis. It is awe-inspiring. Probably every visitor 
has a favorite time for his first sight of it. We saw it frequently 
afterward, but our suggestion for the very first encounter is near sunset. 
The light at that time is a benediction. The serene, majestic 
columns of the Parthenon, tawny in color against the pure deep blue sky, 
frame incredible vistas. All we wanted to do was to stand very quietly 
and look and look and look.   More than twenty-four hundred 
years old, bruised, battered, worn and partially destroyed, combining 
to an astounding degree solidity and grace, it still stands, incomparable 
testimony to man's aspiration. In 1687 the Turks, who had been 
in control of the city since the fifteenth century, with a truly shattering 
lack of prudence used the Parthenon as a powder magazine. It 
was hit by a shell fired by the bombarding Venetian army and the great 
central portion of the temple was blown to smithereens.   Nearby 
is the temple of Athena. The architectural feature, the caryatides 
upholding the portico, famous around the world as the Porch of the 
Maidens, was referred to airily by Mando as the Girls' Place. 
Another beautiful building is the Propylaea, the entrance gate of the 
Acropolis.   My other nugget of art and architectural knowledge- 
besides remembering that it was Ghiberti who designed the doors 
of the baptistery in Florence- is the three styles of Greek columns. 
For some happy reason Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian have always 
stuck in my mind. Furthermore I can identify each design. It remained, 
however, for Mando to teach me that Doric symbolized strength, 
Ionic wisdom, and Corinthian beauty, the three pillars of the ancient 
world. The columns of the Parthenon are fluted Doric.   Another 
classic sight that gave us considerable pleasure was the evzone sentry, 
in his ballet skirt with great pompons on his shoes, who was patrolling 
up and down in front of the palace. Gun on shoulder, he would 
march smartly for a few yards, bring his heels together with a click, 
make a brisk pirouette, skirts flaring, and march back to his point 
of departure. We did not dare speak to so exalted a being, but Norton 
aimed his camera and shot him, so to speak, on the rise, the split second 
between the halt and the turn.   The evening of our first 
day we drove with Christopher and Judy Sakellariadis, who were friends 
and patients of Norton, to dine at a restaurant on the shores of 
the Aegean. On the way out Mr& Sakellariadis detoured up a special 
hill from which one may obtain a matchless view of the Acropolis lighted 
by night.   The great spectacle was a source of rancor, and 
Son et Lumiere, which the French were trying to promote with the 
Athenians, 
was the reason. These performances were being staged at historical 
monuments throughout Europe. By a combination of music, lighting 
effects, and narration, famous events that have transpired in 
these 
locations are evoked and re-created for large audiences usually to 
considerable acclaim. The Acropolis had been scheduled for the treatment 
too, but apparently it was to take place at the time of the full 
moon when the Athenians themselves, out of respect for the natural beauty 
of the occasion, were wont to forgo their own usual nocturnal illumination.

Athenian society was split into two factions, the Philistines 
and the Artists. The Artists contended that the Philistines, 
gross of soul, were all for having Son et Lumiere, since the 
French were footing the bill and the attraction, wherever it had been 
done, had proven popular. This was the crassest kind of materialism 
and they, the Artists, would have no truck with it. The Acropolis 
was unique in the world and if that imcomparable work flooded by moonlight 
wasn't enough for both natives and tourists, then they were quite 
simply barbarians 
and the hell with them. It was very stimulating.

The restaurant to which the Sakellariadises took us on this night 
of controversy was the Asteria, on Asteria beach. This is a public 
bathing beach, easily accessible by tramway from the center of Athens. 
Office workers frequently go out there to lunch and swim during 
the siesta period, which, during the summer, lasts from two until five 
in the afternoon, when shops and offices are again open for business. 
They close sometime after eight. Nine o'clock is the rush hour, 
when the busses are jammed, and by nine-thirty the restaurants are beginning 
to fill. Bedtime is late, for the balmy evenings are delightful 
and everyone wants to linger under the stars.   The sand is fine 
and pleasant, the cabanas are clean, and the parasols, green, raspberry, 
and butter yellow, are very gay. Although open to the general 
public it is not overcrowded; the atmosphere is that of an attractive 
private beach club at home. We went there a couple of times to swim 
and enjoyed ourselves thoroughly. This agreeable state of affairs is 
explicable, I think, on two counts. One is Greece is not yet suffering 
from overpopulation. The public may still find pleasure in public 
places. The other is that the charge for cabanas and parasols, though 
modest from an American point of view, still is a little high for 
many Athenians. We were struck by the notable absence of banana skins 
and beer cans, but just so that we wouldn't go overboard on Greek 
refinement, perfection was side-stepped by a couple of braying portable 
radios. Greek boys and girls also go for rock-and-roll, and the stations 
most tuned to are those carrying United States overseas programs. 
A good deal of English was spoken on the beach, most educated Greeks 
learn it in childhood, and there were also American wives and 
children of our overseas servicemen.   For a delightful drive out 
of Athens I should recommend Sounion, at the end of the Attic Peninsula. 
The road, a comparatively new one, is very good, winding along 
inlets, coves, and bays of deep and brilliant blue. I suppose the 
day will inevitably come when the area will be encrusted with developments, 
but at present it is deserted and seductive. Three beneficial 
hurdles to progress are the lack of water, electricity, and telephones.

At Sounion there is a group of beautiful columns, the ruins 
of a temple to Poseidon, of particular interest at that time, as active 
reconstruction was in progress. Gaunt scaffoldings adjoined the ruins, 
and on the ground segments of columns two and a half to three feet 
in thickness were being fitted with sections cunningly chiseled to 
match exactly the fluting and proportion of the original. Later they 
would be hoisted into place.   There is a mediocre restaurant at 
Sounion and I fed a thin little Grecian cat and gave it two saucers 
of water- there was no milk- which it lapped up as though it were 
nectar. I think its thirst had never been assuaged before.   Norton 
and I dined one night in a sea-food restaurant in Piraeus right 
on the water's edge. To enter it, you go down five or six steps 
from the road. Across the road is the kitchen, and waiters bearing great 
trays of dishes dodge traffic as nimbly as their French colleagues 
at the restaurant in the Place du Tertre in Paris.   This restaurant, 
too, had a cat, a dusty, thin little creature. How <can> 
a cat be thin in a fish restaurant? But this one was. When offered 
a morsel it glanced right and left and winced, obviously frightened 
and expecting a kick, but too hungry not to snatch the tidbit. Greece 
was one of the highlights of our trip, but beginning in Greece and continuing 
around the world throughout Southeast Asia the treatment of 
animals was horrifying, ranging from callous indifference to active 
cruelty. This of course was not true of the educated and sophisticated 
people we met, who loved their pets, but kindness is not a basic human 
instinct.   We met some charming Athenians, and among them our 
chauffeur Panyotis ranked high. His English was limited, and the 
little he knew he found irritating. A particularly galling phrase was 
"O&K&, Panyotis, we have time at our disposal". This he 
claimed was the favorite refrain of the English. They would be lolling 
under a tree sipping Ouzo, relishing the leisurely life, assuring 
him that the day was yet young. 
"Let him become honest, and they discard him.- But let him be ready 
to invent whatever falsehood- to assail whatever character- and 
to prostitute his paper to whatever ends- and they hug him to their 
heart. In proportion to the degradation of his moral worth, is the 
increase of his worth to them".   To exonerate the legislature 
and thereby extricate himself from a sticky situation, Pike took another 
course and made it appear that the legislature had been bilked. He 
claimed in his attacks that Woodruff, with scurrilous underhandedness, 
had deliberately written an ambiguous bid that had so confused the 
honest members of the legislature that they had awarded him the contract 
without knowing what they were doing.   The charge was so farfetched 
that Woodruff paid little attention to it, and answered Pike 
in a rather bored way, wearily declaring that a "new hand" was 
pumping the bellows of the Crittenden organ, and concluding: "In 
a controversy with an adversary so utterly destitute of moral principles, 
even a triumph would entitle the victor to no laurels. The game 
is not worth the ammunition it would cost. We therefore leave the writer 
to the enjoyment of the unenvied reputation which the personal abuse 
he has heaped on us will entitle him to from the low and vulgar herd 
to which he belongs".   Despite Woodruff's continuing refusal 
to debate with Pike through the columns of his newspaper, Pike 
did not let up his attack for a moment. Over the months he became a 
political gadfly with an incessant barrage of satirical poems ridiculing 
Woodruff, the "Casca" letters belittling Woodruff, and long 
analytical articles vilifying Woodruff. So persistent were these attacks 
that in March of the following year, Woodruff was finally moved 
to action, and Pike was to learn his first lesson in frontier politics, 
the subtle art of diversion.   To attack Pike directly would 
gain Woodruff little, for as a penniless newcomer Pike had nothing 
to lose. By this time Woodruff had accurately measured Pike as a 
man of great personal pride, a man who would fly into a towering rage 
if his integrity were questioned, and who would be anxious to avenge himself. 
Pike's honor would now come under attack, but not by Woodruff 
himself. The charges would be made in the <Gazette> by an anonymous 
correspondent, and Pike would be so busy trying to track down the 
illusive character assassin that he would forget about harassing Woodruff. 
The strategy worked perfectly.   Pike was stunned by the 
first blast against his character, which was published in the March 
4th issue of the <Gazette> under the name "Vale". The anonymous 
correspondent did not resort to innuendoes. He called Pike a thief. 
He said Pike had stolen mules from Harris during the Santa Fe 
expedition; he accused Pike of continuing his sticky-fingered career 
in Arkansas with the theft of some otter skins in Van Buren. The 
charges caught Pike off balance, coming as they did from an unexpected 
quarter. Outraged, he used the <Advocate> of March 7th for a 
denial, sending immediately to Santa Fe and Van Buren for documents 
to vindicate himself, and demanding that Woodruff reveal the name 
of this perfidious slanderer who disguised himself under a pastoral pseudonym.

Woodruff said nothing, and Pike, frustrated, stormed 
throughout Little Rock in an unsuccessful search for "Vale", 
asking 
his friends to keep their ears open. Finally he learned through 
the grapevine that the culprit might be one James W& Robinson in 
Pope County. Without further inquiry, Pike jumped to the conclusion 
that Robinson was guilty, and, following the honorable route that 
would 
eventually lead to the dueling ground, sent a message to Robinson 
through his friends, demanding that he either confirm or deny his complicity. 
Robinson did neither. To Pike, silence was tantamount to an 
admission of guilt, and he determined to get Robinson onto the dueling 
ground at all costs. On April 11th he wrote an open letter in the 
<Advocate>, making it known "to the world that Jas& W& Robinson 
<is by his own admission> a base LIAR and a SLANDERER".

If Robinson was a liar and a slanderer, he was also 
a very canny gentleman, for nothing that Pike could do would pry so 
much as a single word out of him. Preoccupied with his own defense and 
his attempts to get Robinson to fight, Pike lessened his attacks 
on Woodruff, and finally stopped them altogether. And Pike never did 
find out if Robinson was really responsible for the "Vale" letter. 
Woodruff's strategy had been immensely successful.   It 
took Pike a long time to realize what Woodruff had done, and it had 
a profound effect on him. Once he learned a lesson, he never forgot it. 
In the next few months of comparative silence, Pike waited patiently 
until conditions were perfect for a new attack, and then, displaying 
a remarkable grasp of the subtleties of political infighting, gained 
from his first bout with Woodruff, he used these changed conditions 
to excellent advantage.   Shortly after the "Vale" incident, 
a rift began to develop between William Woodruff and Governor Pope. 
One-armed, gruff, frugally honest, Governor Pope had been the 
ideal man to assume office in Arkansas after the disgraceful antics of 
political bosses like Crittenden, and he ruled the state with an iron 
fist, tolerating no nonsense. Woodruff had supported him all the way, 
both as a chief executive and as a man. Besides being political allies, 
they were also friends. This warm relationship came to an abrupt 
end in June of 1834 when the National Congress appropriated $3,000 
for compiling and printing the laws of Arkansas Territory, and, 
taking note of the recent wave of corruption in the legislature, left 
it to the governor to award the contract.   Woodruff wanted this 
political windfall very badly, and everyone assumed that he would get 
it because he was a close friend of the governor and his stanchest supporter. 
After all, Woodruff owned a competent printing plant and was 
the logical man for the job. But because the governor was determined 
that friendship should not influence him one way or the other, he looked 
for a printer with a knowledge of the law (which Woodruff did not 
have), and awarded the contract to a lawyer named John Steele who 
had started a newspaper in Helena the year before.   Woodruff was 
furious. Considering the governor's act a personal rebuff, he aired 
his feelings in the <Gazette> on August 26, 1834: "We think 
the governor treated us rather shabbily, to say the least of it. **h 
It is but justice to Mr& Steele for us to add that, in the above 
remarks, nothing is intended to his disparagement, either as a lawyer 
or as a printer. He got a good fat job and we congratulate him on his 
good luck. We hope that he will execute it in a manner that will entitle 
him to credit".   As summer cooled into fall and winter, 
even so the relationship between the two men continued to grow colder 
by the day, and by December of 1834 it was icy. It was at this point 
that Pike decided to capitalize on the bad feelings between the two 
men. The eventual prize in this new battle was the public printing contract 
that Woodruff still held.   From his first bout with the 
canny Woodruff, Pike had learned that it was better not to attack him 
directly, so, harping on the theme that the cost of printing was too 
high, he condemned the governor for permitting such a state of affairs 
to exist. To document his charge, Pike set up two parallel columns 
in the <Advocate> showing the price charged by the <Gazette> and 
the considerably lower price for which the work could be done elsewhere. 
Then he called on the governor to explain why.   The governor 
was not used to having his integrity questioned, and he promptly 
passed the charges on to Woodruff, demanding that Woodruff answer them. 
If Woodruff could not furnish a strong explanation, the governor 
insisted that he lower his prices in accord with the scale printed in 
the <Advocate>. Woodruff was now impaled on the horns of a dilemma. 
As a proud man, his prestige would suffer if he let Pike dictate 
to him through the governor's office, but to lower his prices would 
be tantamount to an admission that they had been too high in the first 
place. As a consequence, he did neither. Very angry at Woodruff, 
the governor used his personal influence to have the printing contract 
withdrawn from the <Gazette> and awarded to the lowest bidder, which, 
by a strange coincidence, happened to be Pike's <Advocate>. 
And, for the moment at least, the governor now found himself allied with 
the head of the Crittenden faction he had formerly opposed, and Pike 
was credited with a clear triumph over Woodruff.   But in 
the 
confused atmosphere of frontier politics, alliances were as quickly 
broken as they were formed, and as Pike came to favor with the governor 
of the Territory, the governor fell out of favor with the President 
of the United States. On January 28, 1835, Andrew Jackson removed 
Pope from office and elevated Territorial Secretary William 
S& Fulton to the position. Fulton was a very close friend of Jackson, 
and had been his private secretary for a number of years in the 
old days. As a stanch party man and a rabid Democrat, he had little 
tolerance for Whigs like Pike, and Pike lost any immediate personal 
advantage his victory over Woodruff might have gained him. 

#2# 

As Pike proved himself adept in the political arena, he also became 
a social lion in the village of Little Rock, where he served as a symbol 
of the culture that the ladies of the town were striving so eagerly 
to cultivate. After all, Pike was an established poet and his work 
had been published in the respectable periodicals of that center of 
American culture, Boston. His accomplishments, and the fact that he 
was resident, did much to offset the unkind words travelers used to 
describe Little Rock after a visit there. For some reason, none of 
them were impressed with the territorial capital. The internationally 
known sportsman and traveler Friedrich Gersta^cker was typical of 
its detractors in the mid-thirties. "Little Rock is a vile, detestable 
place **h". he wrote. "Little Rock is, without any flattery, 
one of the dullest towns in the United States and I would not have 
remained two hours in the place, if I had not met with some good friends 
who made me forget its dreariness".   Pike enjoyed his 
new social position tremendously, and cultivated in himself those traits 
necessary to its preservation. He was especially popular with women, 
for, like the romantic poetry he wrote, he was personally gracious, 
gallant, and chivalrous. He again began to play the violin, and tucking 
the instrument beneath his chin, performed soulful and romantic airs 
to match the expressions on the faces of the lovely women who gathered 
to hear him. His artistic accomplishments guaranteed him entry into 
any social gathering. He composed songs and set them to music and 
sang them in a soft, melodious voice, and when his audience had had enough 
of music he would discourse on politics or tell stories of his western 
adventures guaranteed to excite the emotions of men and women alike.

The bulk of his early reputation, however, came not from 
his poetry or his music, but from his excellence as an orator. By 1834 
the art of oratory had reached a very high level in the United States 
as a literary form. The orator of this period, in order to earn a 
reputation, had to pay close attention to the formal composition of his 
speech, judging how it would appear in print as well as the effect 
it would have on the audience that heard it.   Very soon after his 
arrival in Little Rock, Pike had joined one of the most influential 
organizations in town, the Little Rock Debating Society, and it 
was with this group that he made his debut as an orator, being invited 
to deliver the annual Fourth of July address the club sponsored every 
year. 
SAMUEL GORTON, founder of Warwick, was styled by the historian 
Samuel Greene Arnold "one of the most remarkable men who ever lived". 
A biographer called him "the premature John the Baptist of 
New England Transcendentalism". The historian Charles Francis 
Adams called him "a crude and half-crazy thinker". His contemporaries 
in Massachusetts called him an arch-heretic, a beast, a miscreant, 
a proud and pestilent seducer, a prodigious minter of exorbitant 
novelties. Edward Rawson, secretary of the colony of Massachusetts 
Bay, described him as "a man whose spirit was stark drunk with blasphemies 
and insolence, a corrupter of the truth, a disturber of the peace 
wherever he comes". Nathaniel Morton stated he "was deeply leavened 
with blasphemous and familistical opinions". He was thrown 
out, more or less, from Boston, Plymouth, Pocasset, Newport, and Providence.

On the other hand, Dr& Ezra Styles recorded the 
following testimony of John Angell, the last disciple of Gorton: 
"  He said Gorton was a holy man; wept day and night for 
the sins and blindness of the world **h had a long walk through the trees 
and woods by his house, where he constantly walked morning and evening, 
and even in the depths of the night, alone by himself, for contemplation 
and the enjoyment of the dispensation of light. He was universally 
beloved by his neighbours, and the Indians, who esteemed him, 
not only as a friend, but one high in communion with God in Heaven". 
Gorton sometimes signed himself "a professor of the mysteries of 
Christ".   There is plenty more to recommend Gorton, the facts 
of whose life are given in <The Life and Times of Samuel Gorton,> 
by Adelos Gorton. He fought like a fiend for the helpless and 
oppressed, worked for the abolition of slavery, helped the Quakers 
and Indians, and worked against the prosecution of witches. He defied 
the Boston hierarchy, and after they sent a small army to get him 
he befuddled the court, including John Cotton, with one of the most 
complicated religious discourses ever heard.   Samuel Gorton was 
born at Gorton, England, near the present city of Manchester, about 
1592. Although he did not attend any celebrated schools or universities, 
he was a master of Greek and Hebrew and could read the Bible 
in the original. He worked as a "clothier" in London, but was greatly 
concerned with religion.   Gorton left England, he said, 
"to enjoy libertie of conscience in respect to faith towards God, 
and for no other end". With his wife and three or more children he 
arrived in Boston in March, 1637, and soon found it was no place for 
anyone looking for liberty of conscience. Roger Williams had recently 
been thrown out, and Anne Hutchinson and her Antinomians were slugging 
it out with the powers-that-be. Gorton and his family moved to 
Plymouth.   Soon he was in trouble there, for defending a woman 
who was accused of smiling in church. She was Ellen Aldridge, a widow 
of good repute who was employed by Gorton's wife and lived with 
the family. The report was: "  It had been whispered privately 
that she had smiled in the congregation, and the Governor Prence 
sent to knoe her business, and command, after punishment as the bench 
see fit, her departure and also anyone who brought her "to the place 
from which she came"". Gorton said they were preparing to deport 
her as a vagabond, and to escape the shame she fled to the woods for 
several days, returning at night. He advised the poor woman not to 
appear in court as what she was charged with was not in violation of 
law. Gorton appeared for her, however, and what he told the magistrates 
must have been plenty, for he was charged with deluding the court, 
fined, and told to leave the colony within fourteen days. He left in 
a storm for Pocasset, December 4, 1638. His wife was in delicate health 
and nursing an infant with measles.   The unconquerable Mrs& 
Hutchinson was residing at Pocasset, after having been excommunicated 
by the Boston church and thrown out of the colony. One can imagine 
that with her and Gorton there it was no place for anyone with 
weak nerves. William Coddington, who was running the colony, felt constrained 
to move seven miles south where, with others- as mentioned 
above- he founded Newport. When, in March, 1640, the two towns 
were united under Coddington, Gorton claimed the union was irregular 
and illegally constituted and that it had never been sanctioned by the 
majority of freeholders.   Then he became involved in a ruckus 
remarkably similar to the one in Plymouth. A cow owned by an old woman 
trespassed on Gorton's land. While driving the cow back home the 
woman was assaulted by a servant maid of Gorton. The old woman complained 
to the deputy governor, who ordered the servant brought before 
the court. Gorton reverted to his Plymouth tactics, refused to let 
her go, and appeared himself before the Portsmouth grand jury. During 
the trial he told off the jury, called them "Just Asses" and 
called a freeman "a saucy boy and Jack-an-Apes". He was jailed 
and banished.   Gorton then moved to Providence and soon put the 
town in a turmoil. He held that no group of colonists could set up 
or maintain a government without royal sanction. Since Rhode Island 
at that time did not have such sanction, his opinion was not popular. 
Roger Williams wrote his friend Winthrop as follows: "  Master 
Gorton, having foully abused high and low at Aquidneck is now 
bewitching and bemaddening poor Providence, both with his unclean and 
foul censures of all the ministers of this country (for which myself 
have in Christ's name withstood him), and also denying all visible 
and external ordinances in depth of Familism: almost all suck in 
his poison, as at first they did at Aquidneck. Some few and myself withstand 
his inhabitation and town privileges, without confession and 
reformation of his uncivil and inhuman practices at Portsmouth; yet 
the tide is too strong against us, and I fear (if the framer of hearts 
help not) it will force me to little Patience, a little isle next 
to your Prudence". Williams also stated: "Our peace was like 
the peace of a man who hath the tertian ague".   Providence finally 
managed to get Gorton out of the town, and he and some friends 
bought land at Pawtuxet on the west side of Narragansett Bay, five 
miles south but still within the jurisdiction of the Providence colony. 
This town should not be confused with Pawtucket, just north of Providence, 
or Pawcatuck, Connecticut, on the Pawcatuck River, opposite 
Westerly, Rhode Island.   Up to now, Gorton had been looking 
for trouble, and now that he was trying to get away from it, trouble 
started looking for him. Upon intelligence that the formidable 
agitator was to favor them with his presence, the benighted inhabitants 
of Pawtuxet, alas, gave their allegiance to Massachusetts and asked 
that colony to expel the newcomers. As it was the custom of that alert 
colony to take over the property of persons asking for protection, 
this was an act roughly equivalent to throwing open the door to a pack 
of wolves and saying "Come and get it".   Gorton and company, 
however, promptly bought land from Miantonomi a few miles south 
of Pawtuxet, extending from the present Gaspee Point south to Warwick 
Neck and twenty miles inland. The settlement was called Shawomet. 
It was not within the jurisdiction of anybody or anything, including 
Providence and Massachusetts. If Gorton wanted peace and quiet 
for his complicated meditations this is where he should have had it. Instead 
of that he was engulfed by bedlam.   Pomham and Soconoco, 
a couple of minor sachems (of something less than exalted character) 
under Miantonomi, declared that they had never assented to the sale 
of land to Gorton and had never received anything for it. Following 
the glorious lead of the heroes of Pawtuxet, they also submitted themselves 
to the protection of Massachusetts. One historical authority 
presents laborious and circuitous testimony tending to arouse suspicion 
that Massachusetts was behind the clouds settling down on the embattled 
Gorton.   However, the General Court at Boston ordered 
the purchasers of Shawomet to appear before them to answer the sachems' 
claim. The purchasers rejected the order in two letters written 
in vigorous terms. Then Massachusetts switched to its standard tactics. 
It pointed out twenty-six instances of blasphemy in the letters, 
and ordered the writers to submit or force of arms would be used. The 
next week, forty soldiers were sent to get the miscreants. The latter 
tried to arbitrate through a delegation from Providence, which offer 
was declined by the invaders. The Commissioners at Boston wrote 
the victims to see their misdeeds and repent or they should "look upon 
them as men prepared for slaughter".   At Shawomet, women 
and children fled in terror across the Bay. The men fortified a blockhouse 
and got ready to fight, but meanwhile appealed to the King and 
again tried to arbitrate. Gorton evidently still had plenty to learn 
about Massachusetts, but he was learning fast. Governor Winthrop wrote: 
"  You may do well to take notice, that besides the title 
to land between the English and the Indians there, there are twelve 
of the English that have subscribed their names to horrible and detestable 
blasphemies, who are rather to be judged as blasphemous than 
they should delude us by winning time under pretence of arbitration".

The attack started on October 2, 1643, and the Gortonists held 
out for a day and a night. The attackers sent for more soldiers, and 
the defenders, to save bloodshed, surrendered under the promise that 
they would be treated as neighbors. Promptly their livestock was taken 
and according to Gorton the soldiers were ordered to knock down anyone 
who should utter a word of insolence, and run through anyone who 
might step out of line.   When the captives arrived in Boston, 
"the chaplain [of their captors] went to prayers in the open streets, 
that the people might take notice what they had done in a holy manner, 
and in the name of the Lord". Gorton and ten of his friends 
were thrown in jail.   On Sunday they refused to attend church. 
The magistrates were determined to compel them. The prisoners agreed, 
provided they might speak after the sermon, which was permitted. Here 
was Gorton's chance to indulge in something at which he was supreme. 
The Boston elders were great at befuddling the opposition with 
torrents of ecclesiastical obscurities, but Gorton was better. Reverend 
Cotton preached to them about Demetrius and the shrines of Ephesus. 
Gorton replied with blasts that scandalized the congregation.

At the trial which took place later, the Pomham matter was completely 
omitted. The Gortonists were charged with blasphemy and tried 
for their lives. Four ecclesiastical questions were presented by the 
General Court to Gorton: "_1._ Whether the Fathers, who 
died before Christ was born of the Virgin Mary, were justified and 
saved only by the blood which hee shed, and the death which hee suffered 
after his incarnation? _2._ Whether the only price of our 
redemption were not the death of Christ on the cross, with the rest 
of his sufferings and obediences, in the time of his life here, after 
hee was born of the Virgin Mary? _3._ Who was the God whom hee 
thinke we serve? _4._ What hee means when hee saith, wee worship 
the starre of our God Remphan, Chion, Moloch"?   Gorton 
answered in writing. All of the elders except three voted for death, 
but a majority of the deputies refused to sanction the sentence. 
Seven of the prisoners were sentenced to be confined in irons for as 
long as it pleased the court, set to work and, if they broke jail or proclaimed 
heresy, to be executed if convicted. The three others got off 
easier. The convicts were put in chains, paraded before the congregation 
at the Reverend Cotton's lecture as an example, and sent to 
prisons in various towns, where they languished all winter, chains included. 
When Fred wheeled him back into his room, the big one looking out on 
the back porch, and put him to bed, Papa told him he was very tired 
but that he had enjoyed greatly the trip downtown. "I've been cooped 
up so long", he added. Getting out again, seeing old friends, 
had given his spirits a lift.   That night after supper I went 
back over to 48 Spruce Street- Ralph and I at that time were living 
at 168 Chestnut- and Ralph went with me. Papa was still elated 
over his afternoon visit downtown. "Baby, I saw a lot of old friends 
I hadn't seen in a long time", he told me, his eyes bright. 
"It was mighty good for the old man to get out again".   The 
next day he seemed to be in fairly good shape and still in excellent 
spirits. But a few days after Fred's return he began hemorrhaging 
and that was the beginning of early and complete disintegration. It 
began in the morning, and very quickly the hemorrhage was a massive one. 
We got Dr& Glenn to him as quickly as we could, and we wired 
Tom of Papa's desperate condition. The hemorrhage was in the prostate 
region; Dr& Glenn saw at once what had happened.   "He 
has lost much blood", he said. "It'll take a lot to replace 
it".   "Dr& Glenn, I've got a lot of blood", Fred 
spoke up, "plenty of it. Let me give Papa blood".   The doctor 
agreed, but explained that it would be necessary first to check Fred's 
blood to ascertain whether or not it was of the same type as 
Papa's. To give a patient the wrong type of blood, said the doctor, 
would likely kill him.   That was in the days before blood banks, 
of course, and transfusions had to be given directly from donor to 
patient. One had to find a donor, and usually very quickly, whose blood 
corresponded with the patient's. And then it took considerably 
longer to make preparations for giving transfusions. They had to take 
blood samples to the laboratory to test them, for one thing, and there 
was much required preliminary procedure.   They made the tests 
and came to Fred; by now it was perhaps two days or longer after Papa 
had begun hemorrhaging.   "Fred, your blood matches your 
father's, all right", Dr& Glenn said. "But we aren't going 
to let you give him any".   "But why in the name of God can't 
I give my father blood"? Fred demanded. "Why can't I, 
Doctor"?   "Because, Fred, it could do him no good. It's 
too late now. He's past helping. He's as good as gone".

And in a few minutes Papa was dead. It was well past midnight. 
Papa had left us about the same hour of the night that Ben had passed 
on. The date was June 20, 1922.   "W& O& Wolfe, 
prominent business man and pioneer resident of this section, died shortly 
after midnight Tuesday at his home 48 Spruce Street", the Asheville 
<Times> of Wednesday, June 21, announced. "Mr& Wolfe 
had been in declining health for many years and death was not unexpected". 
A biographical sketch followed.   Funeral services were 
held Thursday afternoon at four o'clock at the home. Beloved Dr& 
R& F& Campbell, our First Presbyterian Church pastor, was 
in charge. The burial was out in Riverside Cemetery. All about him 
stood tombstones his own sensitive great hands had fashioned.

A few years before his death Papa had agreed with Mama to make a 
joint will with her in which it would be provided that in the event of 
the 
death of either of them an accounting would be made to their children 
whereby each child would receive a bequest of $5000 cash. At his death 
Fred and Ralph, my husband, were named executors of the estate under 
the terms of the will.   Fred and Ralph qualified as executors 
and paid off what debts were currently due, and they were all current, 
since Papa was never one to allow bills to go unpaid. The bills 
were principally for hospitalization and doctors' fees during the 
last years of his life, and when he died he owed in the main only current 
doctor's bills. After they had paid all his debts and the funeral 
costs, Ralph and Fred had some fourteen thousand dollars, as I remember, 
with which to pay the bequests. This, manifestly, would not 
provide $5000 to each of the surviving five children.   So what 
Fred and Ralph did was to attempt to prorate the money fairly by taking 
into account what each of the five had received, if anything, from 
the estate before Papa's death. Consequently, Fred and Tom, the 
two who had been provided college educations, signed statements to the 
effect that each had received his bequest in full, and Effie and I 
were each allotted $5000. Frank had been given about half his legacy 
to use in a business venture before Papa's death; he was given the 
difference between that amount and $5000. Tom had received four years 
of education at the University of North Carolina and two at Harvard, 
and Fred had been in and out of Georgia Tech and Carneigie 
Tech and part of the time had been a self-help student. So, because 
he had received less than Tom, it was felt proper that Fred should receive 
the few hundred dollars that remained. And that's how Papa's 
estate was divided.   Papa, I should emphasize, had been an 
invalid the last several years of his life; his hospital and doctor 
bills had been large and his income had been cut until he was receiving 
little except 
small rentals on some properties he still owned. Had 
he been able to escape this long siege of invalidism, I'm convinced, 
Papa would have left a sizable estate. But he had succeeded well, 
we agreed. 
He had left us a legacy far more valuable than houses and lands 
and stocks and bonds.   For years Papa and Mama had been large 
taxpayers. I recall that several years their taxes exceeded $800. 
In those years of lower property valuations and lower tax rates, that 
payment represented ownership of much property.   "Merciful God, 
Julia"! I have known Papa to exclaim on getting his tax bill, 
"we're going to the dogs"!   But he never expected to 
do that. And he didn't, by a long shot! 

#35.#

In the spring 
of his second year at Harvard, Tom had been offered a job at Northwestern 
University as an instructor in the English Department. But 
he had delayed accepting this job, and as he was leaving to come home 
to Papa in response to our telegram, he dropped a postcard to Miss 
McCrady, head of the Harvard Appointment Office, asking her please 
to write Northwestern authorities and explain the circumstances.

Actually Tom had been postponing giving them an answer, I'm 
confident, because he did not want to go out there to teach. In fact, 
he didn't want to teach anywhere. He wanted to go back to Harvard 
for another year of playwriting. But Papa's death had further complicated 
the financing of Tom's hoped-for third year, and for the 
weeks following it Tom did not know whether his return to Harvard could 
be arranged.   But things were worked out in the family and 
late in August he wrote Miss McCrady an explanatory letter in which 
he told her that matters at home had been in an unsettled condition 
after Papa's death and he had not known whether he would stay at home 
with Mama, accept the Northwestern job, or return to Harvard. But 
he was happy to tell her that his finances were now in such condition 
that he could go back to Harvard for a third year with Professor 
Baker.   And that's what he did. That third year he wrote plays 
with a fury. I believe there are seventeen short plays by Tom now 
housed in the Houghton Library at Harvard; I think I'm right 
in that figure. That fall he submitted to Professor Baker the first 
acts and outlines of the following acts of several plays, six of them, 
according to some of his associates, and he also worked on a play 
that he first called <Niggertown>, the material for which he had collected 
during the summer at home. Later this play would be called <Welcome 
to Our City>. In the spring, it must have been, he began 
working on the play that he called <The House>, which later would 
be <Mannerhouse>. That spring <Welcome to Our City> was selected 
for production by the 47 Workshop and it was staged in the middle 
of May. It ran two nights, and though it was generally praised, there 
was considerable criticism of its length. It ran until past one o'clock. 
That was Tom's weakness; it was demonstrated, many critics 
would later point out, in the length of his novels. In this play 
there were so many characters and so much detail. Tom never knew how 
to condense, to boil down. He was always concerned with life, and he 
tried to picture it whole; he wanted nothing compressed, tight. He 
was a big man, and he wanted nothing little, squeezed; he despised parsimony, 
and particularly of words. In this play there were some thirty 
or more named characters and I don't know how many more unnamed. 
In describing it to Professor Baker after it had been chosen for 
production, he defended his great array of characters by declaring that 
he had included that many not because "I didn't know how to save 
paint", but because the play required them. And he threatened someday 
to write a play "with fifty, eighty, a hundred people- a whole 
town, a whole race, a whole epoch". He said he would do it, though 
probably nobody would produce it, for his own "soul's ease and 
comfort".   That summer Tom attended the summer session at Harvard, 
but he did not ask Mama to send him back in the fall. Instead, 
he went down to New York and submitted <Welcome to Our City> 
to the Theatre Guild, which had asked him to let them have a look at 
it after Professor Baker had recommended it highly. He hung around 
New York, waiting to hear whether they would accept it for production 
and in that time came down to Asheville and also paid a short visit 
to Chapel Hill, where with almost childish delight he visited old 
friends and favorite campus spots. On returning to New York he had 
a job for several weeks; it was visiting University of North Carolina 
alumni in New York to ask them for contributions to the Graham 
Memorial Building fund. The Graham Memorial would be the campus 
student union honoring the late and much beloved Edward Kidder Graham, 
who had been president when Tom entered the university.   Well, 
the Theatre Guild kept that play, and kept it, and finally in 
December they turned it down. But they would reconsider it, they assured 
him, if he would rewrite it. Tom told me about it, how one evening 
he went over to see the Theatre Guild man. This man, Tom said, 
had the play shut up in his desk, I believe, and when Tom sat down, 
he pulled it out and apologetically told Tom that they wouldn't be 
able to use it.   Tom said he almost burst into tears, he was so 
disappointed and put out. The man, Tom said, explained that it was 
not only too long and detailed but that as it stood it wasn't the sort 
of thing the public wanted. The public, Tom said the man told him, 
wanted realism, and his play wasn't that. It was fantastic writing, 
beautiful writing, the man declared, but the public, he insisted, 
wanted realism.   Tom was not willing to revise the play according 
to the plan the man suggested. Such a revision, he said, would ruin 
it, would change his whole conception of the play as well as the treatment. 
He thought about it and he told the man he just couldn't do 
it over in accordance with the suggestions he had made. 
##

It was not until we had returned to the city to live, while I 
was still at Brown and Sharpe's, that I felt the full impact of 
evangelical Christianity. I came under the spell of a younger group 
in the church led by the pastor's older son. The spirit of this group 
was that we were- and are- living in a world doomed to eternal 
punishment, but that God through Jesus Christ has provided a way of 
escape for those who confess their sins and accept salvation. 
There are millions who accept this doctrine, but few indeed are those 
who accept it so truly that the fate of humanity lies as a weight on 
their souls night and day. This group in Park Place Church was made 
up of the earnest few. I was drawn deeper and deeper into these concerns 
and responsibilities. I engaged more and more in religious activities. 
Besides Church and Sunday School I went to out-of-door meetings 
on the sidewalk at the church door. I went to an afternoon service 
at the ~YMCA. I went to the Christian Endeavor Society 
and to the evening service of the church. Much of this lacked the active 
support of the pastor. The young people were self-energizing, and 
I was energized. Once or twice my father asked me if I wasn't overdoing 
a bit in my churchgoing.   Meanwhile I myself was not yet 
saved. At least I had been unable to lay hold on the experience of 
conversion. Try as I might to confess my sins and accept salvation, 
no answer came to me from heaven. Finally, after years, I gave up.

The basic difficulty, I suppose, was in my ultimate inability 
to feel a burden of sin from which I sought relief. I was familiar 
with <Pilgrim's Progress>, which I read as literature. No load 
of sin had been laid on my shoulders, nor did earnest effort enable 
me to become conscious of one.   There is, of course, the doctrine 
of original sin, which asserts that each of us as individuals partakes 
of the guilt of our first ancestor. In the rhyming catechism this 
doctrine is worded thus: "In Adam's fall We sin-ned all".

This doctrine was repugnant to my moral sense. I did not feel 
it presumptuous to expect that the Creator would be at least as just 
as the most righteous of His creatures; and the doctrine of original 
sin is compounded of injustice.   Some of these thoughts- not 
all of them- have taken organized form in later years. The actual 
impelling force which severed me from evangelical effort was of another 
sort. I became disgusted at being so preoccupied with the state of 
my own miserable soul. I found myself becoming one of that group of 
people who, in Carlyle's words, "are forever gazing into their own 
navels, anxiously asking 'Am I right, am I wrong'"? I bethought 
me of the Lord's Prayer, and these words came to mind: 
"Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven". 
They have remained on the opened page of my mind in all the years 
which since have passed. From that time to this my religious concern 
is that I might give effective help to the bringing in of God's kingdom 
on earth.   I do not claim to be free from sin, or from the 
need for repentance and forgiveness. In my experience the assurance 
of forgiveness comes only when I have confessed to the wronged one and 
have made as full reparation as I can devise. ##

There was one 
further step in my religious progress. This was taken after I came 
to live in Springfield, and it was made under the guidance of the Reverend 
Raymond Beardslee, a young preacher who came to the Congregational 
Church there at about the same time that I moved from New York. 
His father was a professor at Hartford Theological Seminary, 
and from him he acquired a conviction, which he passed along to me, that 
there is in the universe of persons a moral law, the law of love, 
which is a natural law in the same sense as is the physical law.

It is most important that we recognize the law of love as being unbreakable 
in all personal relationships, whether individually, socially 
or as between whole nations of people. If obeyed, the law brings order 
and satisfaction. If disobeyed, the result is turmoil and chaos.

As we observe moral law and physical law they appear as being inevitable. 
We can conceive of no alternatives. Their basis seems deeper 
than mere authority. They are not true because scientists or prophets 
say they are true. It is not the authority of God Himself which 
makes them true. Because God is what He is, the laws of the universe, 
material and spiritual, are what they are. Deity and Law are one 
and inseparable.   With this conviction, the partition between 
the sacred and the secular disappears. One's daily work becomes sacred, 
since it is performed in the field of influence of the moral law, 
dealing as it does with people as well as with matter and energy.

In his book <Civilization and Ethics> Albert Schweitzer faces 
the moral problems which arise when moral law is recognized in business 
life, for example. His <Ethics> defines "possessions as the 
property of the community, of which the individual is sovereign steward. 
One serves society by conducting a business from which a certain 
number of employees draw their means of subsistence; another by giving 
away his property in order to help his fellow man. Each will decide 
on his own course somewhere between these two extreme cases according 
to the sense of responsibility which is determined for him by the particular 
circumstances of his own life. No one is to judge others".

He is uncompromising in assigning guilt to the man who finds 
it necessary to inflict or permit injury to one individual or group for 
the sake of a larger good. For this decision a man must take personal 
responsibility. Says he, "I may never imagine that in the struggle 
between personal and supra-personal responsibility it is possible 
to make a compromise between the ethical and the purposive in the shape 
of a relative ethic; or to let the ethical be superseded by the purposive. 
On the contrary it is my duty to make my own decision as between 
the two".   Schweitzer seems, in fact, to acquire for himself 
a burden of sin, not bequeathed by Adam, but accumulated in the 
inevitable judgments which life requires of him as between greater and 
lesser responsibilities. This viewpoint I find interesting, but it 
has never weighed on my soul. Perhaps it should have. My own experience 
has followed simpler lines.   An uncompromising belief in the 
moral law has the advantage of making religion natural, even as physical 
law is natural. Neither the engineer nor the ordinary citizen feels 
any self-consciousness in obeying the laws of matter and energy, 
nor can he achieve a sense of self-righteousness in such obedience. To 
obey the moral law is just ordinary common sense, applied to a neglected 
field. Religion thus becomes integrated with life.   This 
truth that the moral law is natural has other important corollaries. One 
of them is that it gives meaning and purpose to life. In seeking 
for such meaning and purpose, Albert Schweitzer seized upon the concept 
of the "sacredness of life". It is puzzling to the occidental 
mind (to mine at least) to assign "sacredness" to animal, insect, 
and plant life. These lives are in themselves outside of the moral order 
and are unburdened with moral responsibility. There is indeed a 
moral responsibility on man himself, for his own soul's sake, to respect 
lower life and to avoid the infliction of suffering, but this viewpoint 
Schweitzer rejects.   So far as "sacredness" inheres 
in any aspect of creation it seems to me to be found in human personality, 
whether in Lambarene, Africa, or in Washington, D&C&. One 
cannot read the records of scientists, officials and travelers who 
have penetrated to the minds of the most savage races without realizing 
that each individual met with is a <person>. Read, for instance, 
in 
Malcolm MacDonald's <Borneo People> of Segura and her wise 
father Tomonggong Koh, and her final adjustment to encroaching civilization. 
Above all read in Jens Bjerre's <The Last Cannibals> 
how the old man of the Wailbri tribe (not cannibals) in central Australia 
gave to the white man his choicest possession, while the tears 
streamed down his face. The Australian aborigine is the conventional 
exemplar of degraded humanity; yet here was a depth of sensibility 
which is lacking in a considerable portion of the beneficiaries of our 
civilization.   Persons, whether white, black, brown or yellow, 
are a concern of God. Respect for personality is a privilege and a 
duty for us as brothers.   Such is the field for exercising our 
reverence. As to our action, let us align ourselves with the purpose 
expressed by Jesus in the Lord's Prayer: "Thy kingdom come, 
Thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven". With the knowledge 
that the kingdom comes by obedience to the moral law in our relations 
with all people, we have a firm intellectual grasp on both the means 
and the ends of our lives.   This intellectual approach to spiritual 
life suited me well, because I was never content to lead a divided 
life. As I have said, words from Tennyson remain ever in my memory: 
"That mind and soul, according well, May make one music as 
before".   Let us now give some thought to the soul. When the 
young biologist, Dr& Ballard, began to show interest in our daughter 
Elizabeth, this induced a corresponding interest, on our part, in 
him. I asked one day what he was doing. He told me that he had a big 
newt and a little newt and that he was transplanting a big eye of the 
big newt onto the little newt and a little eye of the little newt onto 
the big newt. He was then noting that the big eye on the little newt 
hung back until the little eye had grown up to it, while the little 
eye on the big newt grew rapidly until it was as big as the other. Then 
I asked, "What does that teach you"? Said he, "It teaches 
me to wonder".   This was a profound statement. In the face 
of the unfolding universe, our ultimate attitude is that of wonder. 
Wonder is indeed the intellectual gateway to the spiritual world.

Gone are the days when, in the nineteenth century, scientists thought 
that they were close to the attainment of complete knowledge of 
the physical universe. For them only a little more needed to be learned, 
and then all physical knowledge could be neatly sorted, packaged 
and put in the inventory to be drawn on for the solution of any human 
problem.   This complacency was blown to bits by the relativity 
of Einstein, the revelation of the complex anatomy of the atom and the 
discovery of the expanding universe. None of these discoveries were 
neatly rounded off bits of knowledge. Each faded out into the unexplored 
areas of the future.   It is as if we, in our center of human 
observation, from time to time penetrate more deeply into the unknown. 
As our radius of penetration, ~R, increases, the area of new 
knowledge 
increases by **f, and the total of human knowledge becomes measured 
in terms of **f. Wonder grows. It is endless.   There are 
some people, intelligent people, who seem to be untouched by the sea 
of wonder in which we are immersed and in which we spend our lives. One 
such is Abraham Meyer, the writer of a recent book, <Speaking of 
Man>. This is a straightforward denial of the spiritual world and 
a vigorous defense of pure materialism. His inability to wonder vitiates 
his argument.   The subject of immortality brings to mind a 
vivid incident which took place in 1929 at Montreux in Switzerland.

Criticism is as old as literary art and we can set the stage for 
our study of three moderns if we see how certain critics in the past 
have dealt with the ethical aspects of literature. I have chosen five 
contrasting pairs, ten men in all, and they are arranged in roughly 
chronological order. Such a list must naturally be selective, and the 
treatment of each man is brief, for I am interested only in their general 
ideas on the moral measure of literature. Altogether, the list 
will give us considerable variety in attitudes and some typical ones, 
for these critics range all the way from censors to those who consider 
art above ethics, all the way from Plato to Poe. And most of the 
great periods are represented, because we will compare Plato and Aristotle 
from the golden age of Greece; Stephen Gosson and Sir Philip 
Sidney from renaissance England; Dr& Johnson and William 
Hazlitt of the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries in England; 
and James Russell Lowell and Edgar Allan Poe of nineteenth 
century American letters. 

#PLATO AND ARISTOTLE#

Plato and Aristotle 
agree on some vital literary issues. They both measure literature 
by moral standards, and in their political writings both allow for 
censorship, but the differences between them are also significant. While 
Aristotle censors literature only for the young, Plato would banish 
all poets from his ideal state. Even more important, in his <Poetics,> 
Aristotle differs somewhat from Plato when he moves in the 
direction of treating literature as a unique thing, separate and apart 
from its causes and its effects.   All through <The Republic,> 
Plato attends to the way art relates to the general life and ultimately 
to a good life for his citizens. In short, he is constantly concerned 
with the ethical effects. When he discusses the subject matter 
of poetry, he asks what moral effect the scenes will have. When he 
turns briefly to literary style, in the Third Book, he again looks to 
the effect on the audience. He explains that his citizens must not 
be corrupted by any of the misrepresentations of the gods or heroes that 
one finds in much poetry, and he observes that all "these pantomimic 
gentlemen" will be sent to another state. Only those story tellers 
will remain who can "imitate the style of the virtuous".

Plato is, at times, just as suspicious of the poets themselves as he 
is of their work. When he discusses tyrants in the Eighth Book of 
<The Republic,> he pictures the poets as willing to praise the worst 
rulers. But the most fundamental objection he has to poets appears 
in the Tenth Book, and it is derived from his doctrine of ideal forms. 
In Plato's mind there is an irresolvable conflict between the 
poet and the philosopher, because the poet imitates only particular objects 
and is incapable of rising to the first level of abstraction, much 
less the highest level of ideal forms. True reality, of course, is 
the ideal, and the poet knows nothing of this; only the philosopher 
knows the truth.   Poets, moreover, dwell on human passions. And 
with this point about the passions, we encounter Plato's dualism. 
The same sort of thinking plays so large a part in both Babbitt and 
More, that we must examine it in some detail. Plato feels that man 
has two competing aspects, his rational faculty and his irrational. 
We can be virtuous only if we control our lower natures, the passions 
in this case, and strengthen our rational side; and poetry, with all 
its emphasis on the passions, encourages the audience to give way to 
emotion. For this reason, then, poetry tends to weaken the power of 
control, the reason, because it tempts one to indulge his passions, and 
even the best of men, he maintains, may be corrupted by this subtle 
influence.   Plato's attitude toward poetry has always been something 
of an enigma, because he is so completely sensitive to its charm. 
His whole objection, indeed, seems to rise out of a deep conviction 
that the poets <do> have great power to influence, but Plato seldom 
pays any attention to what might be called the poem itself. He is, 
rather, concerned with the effect on society and he wants the poets 
to join his fight for justice. He wants them to use their great power 
to strengthen man's rational side, to teach virtue, and to encourage 
religion.   While Plato finally allows a few acceptable hymns 
to the gods and famous men, still he clearly leaves the way open for 
further discussion of the issue. He even calls upon the poets to defend 
the Muse and to show that poetry may contribute to virtue. He says: 
"  We 
may further grant to those of her [Poetry's] defenders 
who are lovers of poetry and yet not poets, the permission to 
speak in prose on her behalf: let them show not only that she is pleasant 
but also useful to States and to human life, and we will listen 
in a kindly spirit; for if this can be proved we shall surely be the 
gainers- I mean, if there is a use in poetry as well as a delight".

When we turn to Aristotle's ideas on the moral measure 
of literature, it is at once apparent that he is at times equally concerned 
about the influence of the art. In the ideal state, for instance, 
he argues that the young citizens should hear only the most carefully 
selected tales and stories. For this reason, he would banish indecent 
pictures and speeches from the stage; and the young people should 
not even be permitted to see comedies till they are old enough to 
drink strong wine and sit at the public tables. By the time they reach 
that age, however, Aristotle no longer worries about the evil influence 
of comedies.   In Aristotle's analysis of tragedy in the 
<Poetics,> we find an attempt to isolate the art, to consider only 
those things proper to it, to discover how it differs from other arts, 
and to deal with the effects peculiar to it. He assures us, early 
in the <Poetics,> that all art is "imitation" and that all imitation 
gives pleasure, but he distinguishes between art in general and 
poetic art on the basis of the means, manner, and the objects of the 
imitation. Once the poetic arts are separated from the other forms, 
he lays down his famous definition of tragedy, which sets up standards 
and so lends direction to the remainder of the work. A tragedy, by 
his definition, is an imitation of an action that is serious, of a certain 
magnitude, and complete in itself. It should have a dramatic form 
with pleasing language, and it should portray incidents which so arouse 
pity and fear that it purges these emotions in the audience. Any 
tragedy, he maintains, has six elements: plot, character, and thought 
(the objects of imitation), diction and melody (the means of imitation), 
and spectacle (the manner of imitation). Throughout the rest of 
the <Poetics,> Aristotle continues to discuss the characteristics 
of these six 
parts and their interrelationship, and he refers frequently to the 
standards suggested by his definition of tragedy.   Aristotle's 
method in the <Poetics,> then, does suggest that we should isolate 
the work. The Chicago contingent of modern critics follow Aristotle 
so far in this direction that it is hard to see how they can compare 
one poem with another for the purpose of evaluation. But there are, 
however, several features of Aristotle's approach which open the 
way for the moral measure of literature. For one thing, Aristotle mentions 
that plays may corrupt the audience. In addition, his definition 
of a tragedy invites our attention, because a serious and important 
action may very well be one that tests the moral fiber of the author 
or of the characters. And there is one other point in the poetics that 
invites moral evaluation: Aristotle's notion that the distinctive 
function of tragedy is to purge one's emotions by arousing pity 
and fear. He rejects certain plots because they do not contribute to 
that end. The point is that an ethical critic, with an assist from Freud, 
can seize on this theory to argue that tragedy provides us with 
a harmless outlet for our hostile urges. In his study <Samuel Johnson,> 
Joseph Wood Krutch takes this line when he says that what Aristotle 
really means by his theory of catharsis is that our evil passions 
may be so purged by the dramatic ritual that it is "less likely 
that we shall indulge them through our own acts". In Krutch's view, 
this is one way to show how literature may be moral in effect without 
employing the explicit methods of a moralist. And we can add that 
Krutch's interpretation of purgation is also one answer to Plato's 
fear that poetry will encourage our passions. If Krutch is correct, 
tragedy may have quite the opposite effect. It may allay our passions 
and so restore the rule of reason. Or in more Freudian terms, 
the experience may serve to sublimate our destructive urges and strengthen 
the ego and superego. 

#GOSSON AND SIDNEY#

The second half of 
the sixteenth century in England was the setting for a violent and long 
controversy over the moral quality of renaissance literature, especially 
the drama. No one suggested that the ethical effects of the art 
were irrelevant. Both sides agreed that the theater must stand a moral 
test, but they could not agree on whether the poets were a good or 
a bad influence. Both sides claimed that Plato and Aristotle supported 
their cause. Those who wanted to close the theaters, for example, 
pointed to Plato's <Republic> and those who wished to keep them 
open called on the Plato of the <Ion> to testify in their behalf.

The most famous document that comes out of this dispute is perhaps 
Sir Philip Sidney's <An Apologie for Poetrie,> published 
in 1595. Many students of literature know that classical defense. 
What is not so well known, however, and what is quite important for 
understanding the issues of this early quarrel, is the kind of attack 
on literature that Sidney was answering. For this reason, then I want 
to describe, first, two examples of the puritanical attacks: Stephen 
Gosson's <The School of Abuse,> 1579, and his later <Playes 
Confuted,> published in 1582. Second, we will see how Sidney 
answered the charges, for while Sidney's essay was not specifically 
a reply to Gosson, his arguments do support the new theater. 
According to William Ringler's study, <Stephen Gosson,> the theater 
business in London had become a thriving enterprise by 1577, and, 
in the opinion of many, a thoroughly bad business. Aroused by what 
they considered an evil influence, some members of the clergy, joined 
by city authorities, merchants, and master craftsmen, began the attack 
on the plays and the actors for what they called "the abuses of the 
art", but by 1582 some of them began to denounce the whole idea of 
acting. Although this kind of wholesale objection came at first from 
some men who were not technically Puritans, still, once the Puritans 
gained power, they climaxed the affair by passing the infamous ordinance 
of 1642 which decreed that all "public stage-plays shall cease 
and be forborne". With that act of Parliament the opponents of the 
stage won the day, and for more than two decades after that England 
had no legitimate public drama.   In the early days of this controversy 
over the theater one of the interested parties, Stephen Gosson, 
published a little tract in which he objected mildly to the abuses 
of art, rather than the art itself. But his opposition hardened and 
by 1579, in <The School of Abuse,> he was ready to banish all "players". 
He advises women to beware "of those places which in sorrows 
cheere you and beguile you in mirth". He does not really approve 
of levity and laughter, but sex is the deadly sin. He warns that 
a single glance can lead us into temptation, for "Looking eies have 
lyking hartes, and lyking hartes may burne in lust".

But it would not be very satisfactory to leave our conclusions 
at the point just reached. fortunately, it is possible to be somewhat 
more concrete and factual in diagnosing the involvement of values in 
education. For this purpose we now draw upon data from sociological and 
psychological studies of students in American colleges and universities, 
and particularly from the Cornell Values Studies. In the latter 
research program, 
information is available for 2,758 Cornell students 
surveyed in 1950 and for 1,571 students surveyed in 1952. Of the 
latter sample, 944 persons had been studied two years earlier; hence 
<changes> in attitudes and values can be analyzed for identical individuals 
at two points in time. In addition, the 1952 study collected 
comparable data from 4,585 students at ten other colleges and universities 
scattered across the country: Dartmouth, Harvard, Yale, Wesleyan, 
North Carolina, Fisk, Texas, University of California at 
Los Angeles, Wayne, and Michigan.   We find, in the first 
place, that <the students overwhelmingly approve of higher education>, 
positively evaluate the job their own institution is doing, do not 
accept most of the criticisms levelled against higher education in the 
public prints, and, on the whole, approve of the way their university 
deals with value-problems and value inculcation. It is not our impression 
that these evaluations are naively uncritical resultants of blissful 
ignorance; rather, the generality of these students find their 
university experience congenial to their own sense of values.   <Students 
are approximately equally divided between those who regard 
vocational preparation as the primary goal of an ideal education and those 
who chose a general liberal education>. Other conceivable goals, 
such as character-education and social adjustment, are of secondary 
importance to them. <The ideal of a liberal education impresses itself 
upon the students more and more as they move through college>. Even 
in such technical curricula as engineering, the senior is much more 
likely than the freshman to choose, as an ideal, liberal education over 
specific vocational preparation. In the university milieu of scholarship 
and research, of social diversity, of new ideas and varied and 
wide-ranging interests, "socialization" into a campus culture apparently 
means heightened appreciation of the idea of a liberal education 
in the arts and sciences.   Students' <choices> of ideal 
educational goals <are not arbitrary or whimsical>. There is a clear 
relationship between their educational evaluations and their basic 
pattern of general values. The selective and directional qualities of 
basic value-orientations are clearly evident in these data: the 
"success-oriented" 
students choose vocational preparation, the "other-directed" 
choose goals of social adjustment ("getting along with 
people"), the "intellectuals" choose a liberal arts emphasis.

The same patterned consistency shows itself in occupational choices. 
There is <impressive consistency between specific occupational 
preferences and the student's basic conception of what is for him a 
good way of life>. And, contrary to many popular assertions, the <goal-values 
chosen do not seem to us to be primarily oriented to materialistic 
success nor to mere conformity>. Our students want occupations 
that permit them to use their talents and training, to be creative 
and original, to work with and to help other people. They also want 
money, prestige, and security. But they are <optimistic about their 
prospects> in these regards; they set <limits to their aspirations>- 
few aspire to millions of dollars or to "imperial" power and 
glory. Within the fixed frame of these aspirations, they can afford 
to place a high value on the expressive and people-oriented aspects of 
occupation and to minimize the instrumental-reward values of power, 
prestige, and wealth.   Occupational choices are also useful- 
and interesting- in bringing out clearly that values do not constitute 
the only component in goals and aspirations. For there is also the 
"face of reality" in the form of the individual's perceptions 
of 
his own abilities and interests, of the objective possibilities open 
to him, of the familial and other social pressures to which he is exposed. 
We find "reluctant recruits" whose values are not in line with 
their expected occupation's characteristics. Students develop occupational 
images- not always accurate or detailed- and they try to 
fit their values to the presumed characteristics of the imagined occupation. 
The purely cognitive or informational problems are often acute. 
Furthermore, many reluctant recruits are yielding to social demands, 
or compromising in the face of their own limitations of opportunity, 
or of ability and performance. Thus, many a creativity-oriented aspirant 
for a career in architecture, drama, or journalism, resigns himself 
to a real estate business; many a people-oriented student who dreams 
of the M&D& decides to enter his father's advertising agency; 
and many a hopeful incipient business executive decides it were 
better to teach the theory of business administration than to practice 
it. The old ideal of the independent entrepreneur is extant- but 
so is the recognition that the main chance may be in a corporate bureaucracy.

In their views on dating, courtship, sex, and family 
life, our students prefer what they are expected to prefer. For them, 
in the grim words of a once-popular song, love and marriage go together 
like a horse and carriage. Their expressed standards concerning 
sex roles, desirable age for marriage, characteristics of an ideal mate, 
number of children desired are congruent with the values and stereotypes 
of the preceding generation- minus compulsive rebellion. They 
even accept the "double standard" of sex morality in a double sense, 
i&e&, both sexes agree that standards for men differ from standards 
for women, and women apply to both sexes a standard different from 
that held by men.   "Conservatism" and "traditionalism" 
seem implied by what has just been said. But these terms are treacherous. 
<In the field of political values, it is certainly true that 
students are not radical, not rebels against their parents or their peers>. 
And as they go through college, the students tend to bring their 
political position in line with that prevalent in the social groups 
to which they belong. Yet they have accepted most of the extant "welfare 
state" provisions for health, security, and the regulation of 
economic affairs, and they overwhelmingly approve of the traditional 
"liberalism" of the Bill of Rights. When their faith in civil 
liberties is tested against strong pressures of social expediency in specific 
issues, e&g&, suppression of "dangerous ideas", many waver 
and give in. The students who are most willing to acquiesce in the 
suppression of civil liberties are also those who are most likely to 
be prejudiced against minority groups, to be conformist and traditionalistic 
in general social attitudes, and to lack a basic faith in people.

As one looks at the existing evidence, one finds a correlation, 
although only a slight one, between high grades and "libertarian" 
values. But the correlation is substantial only among upperclassmen. 
In other words, as students go through college, those who are 
most successful academically tend to become more committed to a "Bill 
of Rights" orientation. College in gross- just the general experience- 
may have varying effects, but the <the students who are successful 
emerge with strengthened and clarified democratic values>. 
This finding is consistent also with the fact that student leaders are 
